Uh,  RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
I'm forty years old.
Ooh.
Oh yeah yeah yeah.
I mean, you know how it go, I mean, like, uh, y-   for- f- for one thing,  I mean,  like my birth name,  in particular.
I don't really like using it that much, you know what I'm saying.
I like  to use  my other titles-  well not really other titles, but  other personifications how I see myself,  you know.
But I know your birth name is attached  to the universe like that's the first label that you get  when you come into this life, so I'm not ashamed of my name neither.
It's just,  what people do with people's names nowadays,  from identity theft to  I know  cats that been stopped  and used  other people's names  in,  you know,  situations that they put themselves in where they can't  h- well, or- or they don't have enough courage to just take a L.
You know what I'm saying, so they'll put your name,  cause they know you real good.
They'll say, oh my name is so and so,  you know, they get them to skate.
I know people who been caught up like that.
And then, you know, identity theft, all that stuff.
So,  I just try not to use my birth name, but I know that's  the most- I can't change that  about myself.
You can change your name  legally  and it w- still won't matter, because  yeah you f- changed your fate  somewhat, but your birth right name,  that wasn't given to you by mistake.
That was given to you on purpose.
Because when you enter this system, you got karmic laws  that you have to co-  to play out because the system is broken.
The system  is trying to take a whole thing which is you, the true you,  and break you down.
So it's like  if I tell you you gotta come in my crib for example,  it's like,  before you come in here,  you gotta carry those bags outside.
Then you gotta carry my bags,  then you gotta go through the bags and sort all my clothes out for me.
Then you gotta wash 'em,  then you gotta d- go buy me some new clothes.
When I don't like- if I don't like a couple of pieces, then you gotta go-  like it's all these strings attached to it when you enter the system.
And some-  people come with less  because they know the system a little better, so they say, uh-uh you ain't gonna put that on me.
But the system is like,  you know, the system is a fractalization.
It's like  a body.
Like I used to hear people say  a body is a temple.
Nah, a body is a prison.
You have to make it a temple.
All these millions and trillions and billions of cells in your body,  that's a lot to keep track of.
And once they start getting infected,  then you got like this-  this battle going on with- inside of you.
You know what I'm saying, if your body was really perf- perfected,  you wo- you shouldn't be getting sick,  period.
You know what I'm saying, but  because you get sick,  and because  your mind does things to you as a program to keep you,  like you always playing chess.
So, if you ain't- the true you ain't really the one that's in control,  that mind'll keep checking you, checking you all the time, like damn.
You know what I am saying because it's not really in cl- it's not really in sync with shit.
It's part of the system too.
I don't know, I know I'm just  going on and on, but like  this all started from you just asking me about my name.
You know what I'm saying?
You kn- word.
Word.
I mean,  I don't really look at time as age.
I feel like I was born in the same moment that I'm in right now.
I mean unless we freeze time- unless we freeze time, you cannot say the day changed.
The day is continuous.
There is no breaks in day.
Our mind tricks us  to think that we going to sleep and we waking up.
No you sleep in two cycles.
This is the part of the dream you can control.
And the one where you  so-called fall asleep, that's when you actually awake.
You can't control your body, cause your body is made f-   as a suit to play around in this system.
When the true you come out,  it's like that first person on Call of Duty or something.
You don't see your arms and your legs and all of that.
Like I think we was touching on this before, you don't see all of that.
You only see  a point of awareness.
And when you so-called wake up,  you literally sleeve your body on, and zip up a zipper and come out here and start playing.
Yeah man.
For real.
On some realness.
You know what I'm saying?
And they keep- and the body is so sensitive to this system.
That's why it's got nerves and pain and this and this.
It's just like keeping a ship  with all the pressure right, and  keeping the compression chambers so ain't no air seeping and all of that.
It's a spaceship.
And you gotta constantly g- but, it's- it's  so d- it's-  it's not just a spaceship.
It's  everything concentrated into this.
Like you got stars,  planets,  empty space, dark space, all of this is  k- smashed into your body, and it's just exploded.
Like  this is just the bowels of another big body,  and we the bacteria in that body.
Mm.
Being the cells.
A upside down pyramid magnifying glass, just like we look at ants and shit.
In their world  it's a lot of them.
Excuse my French, it's a lot of them.
But,  in their world,  this looks,  like just this yard looks like a whole planet to them.
You know what I'm saying, but to us,  we just looking at 'em, like- we-  like we in-   And then it's just like us.
We in a aquarium.
Somebody's looking at us in a round fish tank,  or I believe a square one,  a flat square one with two holes in it  Like two records on top of each other.
That's that flat earth.
No, when you get out the fish tank, you truly free.
You trying to get out of the fish tank.
All of this is- The fish tank.
Mm-hm.
Well, not in the literal sense, w- w- when you looking at it like- like this.
If you was  in a fish tank inside of the ocean,  and somebody dropped you to the ocean floor, and you see all these other fi- fish just passing you up, and you in this tank.
You can't get but so far, and you notice and everybody's going a lot further than you are.
Once you get out, you truly free.
You see what I'm saying?
But, the analogy wasn't a great analogy cause it's a- somebody will say- a cynic will say, well,  that don't make no sense if you in the ocean, and of course you gonna want the freedom, cause you see the other fish moving around.
But, the jump  outside of the fish tank what I'm saying, like we saying this system is broken.
Basically this system is okay,  but the system's been hacked  by a virus.
A virus is in here changing the software, doing stuff that it ain't supposed to be doing to us.
So  when you have these heavy influences, destructive influences on you,  like with your mind  and your thoughts and your emotions,  it's because something is playing that up that way.
That ain't truly you.
The true you is a baby  that knows how to enjoy themselves in the moment.
Don't need no friends, don't need no toys,  just could-  m- m-  play and just be happy.
Get along with everything, love all animals.
You might have a little fear or something.
Some things might scare you because  you got this internal defense  when something's aggressive like a dog or something.
It might scare,  you know, but it's still  being taught by grown-ups to put that fear in you.
Cause it's some kids that- You're already complete.
Yeah.
It's the- I mean, The biggest punishment I've learned  is  losing control of your emotions.
It's not just  losing control of your emotions.
You're putting destructive out in the world.
It's like  a s- whole slew of stuff happens.
When you speak  in a bad way, you cursing somebody.
Those are true curses.
Like spells are made out of just words, like you could put- you see a- a magician put a spell on somebody, and they'll just use words.
They don't need to use a wand  or no canteen, no potion.
They could just say something to 'em- somebody, and they'd be in a trance.
So words are powerful.
That's one thing.
Then if you say  real hateful stuff, it turn some of it- it turn concern into these mortal  soulless thoughts.
that are basically air parasites, and they turn into insects and all this other stuff that we see.
So like  you see a insect you ain't never seen before, and it's got this long stinger on and all this other-  those are manifestations of our thoughts that are rogue.
Some of them take shape and wanna whisper in your ear destructive stuff to you all the time.
You know, and then,  like say,  something is innocent you might think, is being indecisive.
Like saying, baby where you wanna go eat?
Let's go eat at Burger King.
Nah, let's go eat at Red Lobster.
Nah, let's go to Burger King.
Nah, let's get-  When you do that  you destroy  your- the gallbladder.
Indecisive.
Frustration attacks your pancreas.
Frustration attacks your pancreas.
Anger attacks your liver.
Worry attacks your stomach.
Sadness attacks your lungs.
Anxiety attacks your heart.
Depression  attacks your spine.
And everything from-  um, um, um, like, um, a lot of people- everybody say, there's no cure for fibromyalgia, whatever, whatever.
Fibromyalgia is caused by depression.
Depression puts such a overload on your circuits  in your body, that they basically look like  a bunch of overloaded circuits.
And then you start feeling pain everywhere.
It gets rogue because you done depressed yourself so much,  that your s- your body can't take it.
Like you press me down.
And now I'm short-circuiting  It's like putting a robot in- inside of a vice and turning it.
You gonna start seeing sparks and them exploding and shit a- after a while, because it's too much pressure.
And then he's- putting that on hisself,  an internal vice.
We- I'm trying to give you a visualization of a vice squeezing somebody in a factory.
But imagine a internal one that's around your brain.
And your brain is attached to your spine.
And your brain tells your body what to do, and your spine controls everything else.
Once that stuff starts to  dry up and get crippled and stiff and all that, and you get pain and all,  your whole body goes to crap.
And ain't no doctor gonna tell you depression causes fibromyalgia, but I'm telling you it does.
And depression is caused by inflammation.
Your body has got inflammation somewhere,  and it's keeping the circulation from getting to your brain, so your brain is making destructive chemicals instead of good ones.
What?
Mm-hm.
What?
What is this called?
This is a movie about to come out?
On silver screen?
It's already out?
Okay.
Right, right.
You know that cryogenics they just perfected it.
They said they can send human bodies into space as of today.
And put them in a cryosleep state, a- like frozen.
A- a- and it's-  And they- and they could go like a thousand years on a ship and wake up and still  age just a little bit, because they basically frozen  at the right temperature that the cells don't crystallize and kill themselves, cause that's how you die.
When you starting to freeze,  your body's systems will slow way down and some people be frozen all the way  solid, and then thaw out and be f- perfectly fine.
So there's stories like that.
I've seen a lady trapped up under the ice that was- See one of two things can happen.
It slows the heart rate down so slow  that you basically i- suspended in time.
Or  the ce- s- something happens where the cells crystallize  and once they start to turn into crystals, they bust through the cell walls.
And you basically bleed to death and ooze out all your cell matter into your body because there's crystallizing you in a artificial way.
So your body's supposed to be crystal.
You know, your phone and your TV, all that's liquid  crystal  display.
LCD.
That's what your body is Liquid crystal.
What happens to water when you freeze it?
Yeah, what happens to rock candy r- when you put sugar and water together, and you hang a string from it?
It turn into crystals.
It crystalizes.
You know what I'm saying, your body is the same thing.
It's made of water and all of that.
And when you freeze it, water turns into crystal.
But there's a way of  tuning up water  where you raise the vibrational frequency of water, and it turns into quartz  instead of rock candy,  or it turns into rose  quartz or  calcite or  mold, you know, something,  that you have to mine out of a cave.
And be like, yo, water  helped   make this limestone, like  been dripping for a thousand years, and now it made these huge stalactites that's in this cave.
Water is some amazing shit, but it could get polluted.
Crystals  don't really- they can't get polluted.
They absorb  energy off of shit.
And yeah they can overload but all you gotta do is put 'em in the sun or under a full moon and they fully recharge.
You can't do that with water.
You could pour- I could pour a sludge in that shit right now and fucking put that shit in the sun and the moon and it's still gonna be sludge in that shit in the morning.
You know what I'm saying.
It's gotta be pu- it's hard to keep water pure  because we in such  a fucking riddled virus  environment.
The virus wants to keep shit polluted.
It wants you to think crazy.
It wants to put all this  on him-  on s-  on you, so you could keep  feeding it, because see,  the thing that is  the reason why this virus is here because it needs to feed,  and the only way you can feed on something  is by making it scared.
It's like,  you can't-  you can't-  like, if some vampires came in here right now,  if you just riddled with fear, you gonna get bit.
But if you standing there waiting with a stake and some holy water and a super soaker gun and some garlic and shit, you're ready for whatever.
See,  sometimes you could go to another place like, you know, that's the one dimensional way of defending yourself.
But then,  you might  turn something on inside of you that- cause you  different.
And be able to fight the vampires head up.
You know, but that- it's- it's all about keeping  this  defense up all the time, like  it ain't true peace here, because the system's been hacked.
Whatever jumped in here,  thirty-five hundred BC  really messed everything up man.
Oh wow.
Wow.
Mm.
Mm.
Right.
Mm.
Right.
Well see, the sleep state is not  to keep-  it's just to keep your body in a state of unconsciousness.
Well, then you ain't on no planet, there's no time.
That's why there's no such thing as time.
If you was in the spaceship right now, how would you keep track of the time?
If you away from our sun and you away from our earth, how would you be able to keep track of time?
It's impossible because there's no way- this is a program for you to count how many times the sun and the moon go up to make you age.
If you could tune that shit out, and know you timeless, you could lis- l- your body will last  longer than proba- just as long as the earth itself cause you made of the earth,  and you made of space stuff.
Like it don't make sense that we dying in a hundred years, or  i- li- life expectally lesser than that.
It's because of the emotions.
The emotions  sink so deep into your organs,  if you don't know how to get 'em out,  they stay in there.
And the only thing I've noticed that get 'em out is those frequencies.
Like you can take anger out  immediately.
You can take  somebody having a gallbladder attack, and let them listen to a indecisive binaural beat,  and their gallbladder will miraculously loosen up.
Like I've experienced all that, hernias and-  just listen to solar plexus healing and,  you know, opening your root up.
A lot of people's roots are closed.
All of this is- is, you know,  the things that  people, like exa- for example, the police brutality or the police shootings.
If a lot more fuc-  a lot more people was putting  crystals and stuff in their car,  You know, they have- might have a quartz crystal here  and some charcoal pile right on the floor, smudging their car with white sage and stuff like that.
You're gonna have a less lot m- run-ins  than just  jumping out here scared  every time you see a cop.
I mean it's the f- it's the f- whole fear factor thing that makes you feel like the prey all the time.
If you stop feeling like prey,  then you'll stop being hunted.
I mean, I know some a- some hard dudes and  soon as the cops come around, they be like, don't look to the side.
Don't look over your shoulder.
Your seatbelt on and all this.
I'm just like,  dog, just  be- e- I mean, you're not a criminal.
You out here, you just enjoying your vehicle.
You know what I'm saying, and even like I told you my experience.
Everything will be okay when it's supposed to be okay.
Just when you know it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be alright.
Cause most of them motherfuckers I'm around don't- excuse me, most of the people I'm around don't live they life like that.
Yeah man, I've always been around a lot of humble good people like yourself, man.
I'm from RD-ADDRESS-2,  Connecticut.
Since nineteen eighty-eight.
October twenty-second, nineteen eighty-eight.
Yeah I remember- boy, Yeah man,  RD-PLACE-2, RD-PLACE-2and RD-PLACE-2 I've seen change dramatically.
I mean,  before- uh,  when Freaknik and AU and all of that was popping.
Different World and  all of those shows was on,  uh, television,  like Atlanta was on the uprise then.
Like  I was really enjoying the city at around those times, around  the first Freakniks and all of that,  not like I was,  you know, I ain't know what Freaknik was.
I just happened to go downtown.
Actually I was going to buy some sneakers from Walter's, and I got on the train.
And I was at Doraville Station, and when we got to Chamblee, the train kept going.
It was a whole bunch of people on the docks and I'm like, what's going on?
They didn't stop the train un- all the way until we got to Lenox.
So I get off at Lenox, and it's a bunch of people on the train waiting for the train to transfer.
I go to get to Five Points,  and when I walked outside,  it was just  oceans of people.
Like I've never seen that many people in my life.
And I was like, what is going  on?
And they was like, Freaknik.
Like what the heck is a Freaknik?
Man,  and I mean,  that was a- it was aggravating to me cause, you know, the- the traffic was just stupid.
And the way they treated those students was just ridiculous.
Like there was venues and things for them to do, and the cops, just like it's a police state, like  blocking off exits and forcing people to stay on the highway, that-  that's ridiculousness.
Let people go where they want to go.
You know what I'm saying.
If you- it's making the city money,  and  they enjoying your city,  and that's w- a- a- what cities want, they want that tourist money.
Like when them s- kids used to come  a hundred thousand strong- hundred and fifty thousand strong, They talked about the trash and all that, but they ain't never talked about how many millions of dollars they made in that m- that weekend.
Nah, that was a cl- that's a closed chapter.
That's a old era  from a great  decade.
The nineties.
It a- n-   I mean, it really is.
Yeah, man.
A- it's like,  right now, I'm just still living out a poor rendition of the nineties.
Like n- dudes is coming back with boxes and high rights and- and dying their hair tips and all of that.
Like, I seen that when I was young.
You not gonna see no dude out here with no afro, no butterfly collar, no bellbottoms.
You really ain't gonna see no dude in no  fly away break jacket and some tight Levi's and- you not gonna see that.
You gonna see a nigga w- dressed like a nineties dude, or a two thousand seventeen dude with just like-  I don't know, I just can't- Mm yeah.
I hope not.
I hope I'm not around for it.
Yes, barely.
I seen my pops in some of them, and I was dying.
I was like, yo.
Those joints is skin tight in the f-  and then flare out like right past your shin.
Uh-uh.
Never had it.
No chemical in my hair.
Never.
I've never had a relaxer.
I've never had a perm.
I- I'm- Nah, I don't need that.
I mean,  as long as your groom your hair, Your hair will t- t- turn a certain way.
You can have some of the most brittle hair.
And if you get a good  hard boar brush, some water, and some grease,  and train your hair, then your hair will a- like- Most of the c- cats that came, that were in America,  a lot of people think that Native Americans  are red people.
Them dudes came from the wilderness.
And they learnt from the natives that were here from the Moorish  societies and the different-  Cause this- it was all tropical at one point in time, but them dudes use bear grease.
They would kill a bear and melt the fat of the bear, and when you put it in your hair, it'd make it bone straight.
Like it'd give it that  so-called Indian hair look.
And they brush it and they kept maintaining it and then after a while  the grades of they hair will change.
Is you f-  I ain't-  I ain't gotta tell you no lies, dog.
M- d- bear grease.
Yeah.
Native American bear grease.
Nah, I don't really listen to nothing too much.
I kind of like the Weeknd.
Um,  I like that old jealous by, uh,  What's the little white dude's name?
That one's alright.
That's k- little old now.
Um,  I really don't know the artist's names.
I don't follow music like  I used to, so.
Yeah.
Most of the music I listen to is like eighties, soft rock, o- or   like seventies disco.
I like some sixties stuff.
I don't like  gospel at all.
I don't like band-  w- well not band music.
What is it, funk?
I don't like funk at all.
Yeah, I kind of like jazz.
And, um, yeah.
I like, um,  merengue music.
I like salsa music.
Um, I like  a little bit of alternative music.
I love house music.
Yeah,  dance hall reggae.
I mean, I'll basically listen to anything if it's got a catchy,  you know, rhythm to it that could make me feel like I could move to it, then I probably feel it.
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
The Migos.
They don't know    I don't know.
Not at all, bruh.
Nah, they be into old school like Celia Cruz.
They like the old throwback stuff.
You know, cause we only listen to really throwback music around now.
Those two-  I'll take that back, cause RD-NAME-2 knows  a lot of music.
I don't know where she pick it up from,  but she know a lot of songs by heart.
Yeah, about the bear grease?
Man, I ain't gonna steer you wrong, bruh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, blah blah blah.
I wasn't talking about the English people, though.
I'm talking about brothers.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Man, you know how many numbers I still know by heart?
Like, I know your number by heart.
I know like, five or six of my n- homies' numbers by heart, all my cousins in Connecticut.
I- I don't let this technology dumb me down, man.
Cause that's all it does.
Like you gotta  step away from things and keep doing stuff.
Like I be correcting my kids so much just on common sense stuff.
Like, what are you doing?
Like,  won't you just do this, and it just be the simplest thing?
And they just don't get the concept of connecting it no more.
And I just was like, what is going  on?
It's gotta be this technology.
That's why I don't like being in all-  in front of no computer screen for too long.
No video game, TV, nothing.
Like I just be here trying to keep my brain so my body don't fall apart, cause that's all it's doing.
It- it's making dudes lazy.
Yeah, and that's so not good for you, man.
That shit is- got like s- these heavy Wi-Fi signals coming out that shit cau- you should see what Wi-Fi does to the body.
It causes cancer so quick.
And all these mutations in your cells and- and then just being in front of AC stuff.
It's- that's called electromagnetic toxicity because your body is DC.
You direct current.
Your head  is negative.
Well actually, half of your body's negative, other half is positive.
But,  you could also  perceive it as the hands  and the feet being negative.
Those are your outlets.
And the head being positive.
So when you-  that's like a battery you put in your remote.
AC is all your electronic devices which is  plus minus, plus minus, plus minus, plus minus real fast.
It's a alternating current.
You a direct current.
When that alternating current hits this direct current body, you got one that's flowing straight, and another one that's jagged.
When you intersect the two, the one that's straight-  it's impossible for it to stay straight because it's got all this-  so what-  your heart let's say is  V one o three, when that h- shit hits it,   it's one o three point one.
You can't barely hear the radio station just by them two little  that one little turn, your heart is not beating right no more.
Your brain frequency supposed to be at ninety-seven point five  And then that damn AC hit that shit, and that shit turns it down to  ninety-seven point three.
You can't hear nothing but static.
And then the more shit you turn on, it kno- keeps knocking the points down.
You know what I'm saying, like  that shit is no joke, man.
And that shit is hard to detox that cause your body don't understand artificial toxins.
Like it's hard to get rid of chemical toxins.
Uh, the best way to get rid of 'em  is to run them out.
That's why people sit in saunas  and go  exercise and get a good sweat.
That's the best way to get out chemical poison.
But electrom- electromagnetic poisoning and emotional poisoning,  and that shit is some hard shit to get rid of, boy.
Mm-hm.
That's a investment.
Of course because when you  exercise, you release  chemicals.
Your brain starts to spit out chemicals.
It's just like when you don't exercise.
Your body's-  your mind is basically saying,  or your brain is basically saying  this body don't really wanna shit,  so let me start killing it off some.
Cause you feel like you just  ain't no motion to it.
So it let's cortisol and all of these,  these m- these heavy hormones that make your  body go out of wack.
You start retaining fat and all this other stuff But if you in motion- yeah but if you in mo- but it's about that sweating.
It's not about- you can't- yeah, and ain't no beating that out.
Yeah, that's cause a lot of people got diabetes, and they don't know it.
Like it's so many people out here with pr- pre diabetic or diabetic and don't even know they got that shit.
Cause it's just too much sugar in everything.
It's too much sugar in  everything.
You can't eat a- eat a piece of bread.
W-  a- Whole foods.
That's how you get away from it.
Not- not, um, like the grocery store.
I'm talking about like, whole foods like, you know, vegetables, um, fruit, um,  you know, s- fish.
Yeah, more cooked meals, with healthy options that'll clean your body out, and then all of that stuff goes away anyway.
You know, Like I think humans are descendants  of plants.
There's something else.
It's the second species that came  that is not  like  w- like, we the ones in the- We are plants.
We are not  animals.
We can't be animals.
Check this out.
When-  when you see  a lion eat a buffalo,  that lion has the power in its jaws  and its claws  to break the buffalo's neck,  to bite  through that tough ass hide  and  eat  that shit raw.
Right the l- way it is, through fur and everything.
They don't spit it out.
They eating bugs and lice and whatever else, and then they get to the gut  and devour the bowels.
They have blood all over they face.
Ain't nothing cooked.
And they'll eat that.
Yeah.
You can't do that.
You go try and go bite a dog's skin off and see how far it gets you.
F- m- more or less a cow,  or a buffalo.
You can't even penetrate that  without a knife.
Your canines is underdeveloped.
You not supposed to eat meat.
And then if i- y- it was about you eating meat, what they say?
If a man eats meat all the time, you just killing yourself.
If you made out of flesh- Oh yeah.
I mean, that just makes sense.
You can't eat meat all the time and think you gonna stay healthy.
Meat is so- Yeah.
Like, some people e- live like that that, but they be real unhealthy.
Trust me.
They  might be thick  and may look,  you know, husky and big boned, or what- you know, quote unquote big boned.
Them niggas be unhealthy.
I mean, it's possible too.
Huh?
Uh, Hello?