RD-NAME-2 mother fucking RD-NAME-2.
Oh dang.
Well,  my name is RD-NAME-2.
Okay,  AKA RD-NAME-4.
I'm tuning in.
RD-NAME-4 RD-NAME-2     How do I know him?
Well,  it was  all  based on the m-  one word,  struggle.
Met you at a low point, man.
I had lost my job  and  pretty- nah, actually I was working at RD-WORK-3 getting eight dollars an hour.
CNN, downtown, ATL.
And- and, you know what I'm saying, I was on the food stamps.
I'm- I'm tryna, you know, figure things out, like what's going on.
You know, they  got that SNAP works two point o.
Tryna find a job,  you know, get better pay, all that good stuff.
But then hear this nigga RD-NAME-1,  god damn,  talking about some business shit.
And I was like,  oh shit,  hold up now.
He talking production.
He talking about some shit  that  I can instantly benefit off of.
So I'm like, okay, let me see what this man talking about.
Yeah I got a record c- a record label, this that .
Old big shot sounding ass nigga, you know, you know, little flex.
Little sauce and juice on it.
I was like, alright, bruh.
Let me- let me- w- let me holler at you real quick, you know what I'm saying.
We talked,  and it was just like,  you know, I could  instantly feel,  you know, that- just that-  that  spirit,  you know what I'm saying.
I could feel your energy.
And I was like,  shit, god damn.
Bruh, this n-  I mean, you know,  the fact that you're older, that always  said something to me cause I was a- I was always looking for somebody who-  who would be  like my manager  and  would be older than me  but not too old to where he in a whole nother generation.
You know what I'm saying, like,  you right there,  so it was perfect.
And then the fact that you listen, that you  humble  you know what I'm saying.
You ain't even cocky at all.
Like people wouldn't know,  you know what I'm saying, til they start talking to you.
But,  you know,  that's just what it is.
But-  but  just  because you have that hermetic type of vibe,  you know, I could tell that I can  get good leadership from you  because you know how to listen as well as l- knowing how to  f- you know,  lead.
You know  something,  you know, that I don't know.
I know that,  you know, with  just  RD-WORK-4  period  that, you know, I know,  hm,  as a independent artist,  you know, we have our egos about ourselves, and we feel like  god damn, pretty much  I could do it on my own.
We hear o- everybody on the- on the radio talking about some I did it on my own I did it my own.
Self made.
You know, all this and that.
But they really got a whole team behind them.
You got another question?
Thank you, thank you.
Well,  man, I started actually l-  legit living in Atlanta  really Decatur  east side Atlanta,  uh, what was- this was like twenty fifteen.
This w- this around twenty fifteen,  I s- I came here  when I-  right around November  twenty fifteen, man.
And, uh, you know, it was just like  obviously Atlanta is  the land of opportunity, so,  you know,  coming from where I come from,  which is  Rockdale county AKA Trapdale,  you know, everybody is kind of in this closed box.
I- it's no- Rockdale's in Georgia.
It's pretty much at the end of the east side, like, you know what I'm saying.
It's like the literally, like,  you know  two counties over.
Yeah, far east side.
It's just far east side.
That's all.
So,  you know, everybody has this- What's that?
I've been in Rockdale since I was in the fifth grade, man.
It was- Yeah I grew up in Rockdale, so,  you know, that's- that's definitely where I- where I'm-  where I'm hailing from right now.
That is- Well, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin is my  state  I was born in, you know what I'm saying.
So, you know, my family- I got strong ties in Milwaukee.
That's- you know, that's my- my pop's side of the family, and that's the side that I got- I was blessed to,  you know, get to know.
And, you know, just even just seeing the leadership from my  grandfather, that's what even brought me to this place right now,  why I have confidence to do what I do.
I feel like my relationship with my family  is distant  cause I've always been distant,  you know.
And that's n-  that word in itself, distant, explains everything.
You know, every- like  everything wasn't in my will to be how it is right now.
You know, some- certain things my parents done, you know, right or wrong,  led me to this point  of where I'm at with my family.
So,  you know,  at the end of the day,  I love 'em.
They love me.
You know, I know that.
You know,  at the end of the day, they don't want me to die.
They want me to stay alive, so, you know,   But, um, you know, I- I keep them in mind, man.
They always-  they- you know,  throughout my life, they've definitely checked in, have definitely helped me  and reached out.
So it's just like, as the- as-  we solid,  you know.
And just as long as I'm c- as far as I'm concerned  the- the important things-  they're there for the important things for sure.
I have siblings, man.
I'm actually the oldest  of five.
Yeah man, like  and it's just like,  I'm the oldest, but  I grew up like  as the only child  slick.
Mm,  not that I'm that much older, like it's just- we're just all far apart.
Like m- me and my brother that- you know, my mom o- had- only had two kids.
My da- my dad had other,  uh, children.
So,  um,  you know, with that,  um, like  my brother actually ran away  when I was in middle school,  and he ended up  going to his dad's.
And from that point on, from middle school on  up, I was, you know,  at the crib by myself.
So it was just like, you know, I had other siblings, but I didn't have  the time to ha- have 'em all under my wing, and  me be able to touch them all how I want to and affect them like that, you know.
Which I really wish, but, you know, that- that's not,  you know,  it is what it is, man.
Oh man.
Mm,  Mm,    growing up in middle school,  it was  tough cause I was a weirdo, man.
And I'm still a weirdo, and that's okay.
Everybo- everybody, that is okay.
That's okay.
I- honestly, I feel like in this generation, they- Nah, not- not- not- not at all back then.
Like I was suffering back then.
My middle school- like, bruh,  my shit was so dry, bruh.
And I- I'm a late bloomer.
I'm a late bloomer.
It is what it is, you know what I'm saying.
Like, I developed myself  to where I started to find out,  uh, more about myself in middle school because of poetry.
In middle school,  in- growing up in school,  that was my biggest background was poetry  because  sixth grade  the curriculum came,  shout out to Miss RD-NAME-4, you know what I'm saying, she the one taught me that shit.
So  from that point,  you know, she encouraged me to keep going,  and from there, I was like, okay.
So I- I-  I loved-  I loved the fact that  it was  everything that  I needed at that point.
Poetry provided  the  organization and- and- and- and substance and  the therapy that I needed at that time because,  you know, it was just like-  you know, it was six grade, like I said, I'm- being the only child,  my parents-  like my mom- I was living with my mom and her boyfriend,  so it was just like,  you know, they weren't  too like  involved  with my personal life.
Yeah like, so it was just like, we all lived in that house, but  it's like we didn't really actually communicate with each other.
So- yeah, so,  you know,  school was really  the only thing that provided me some type of hope towards  a better future and this that and the other which is,  you know, crazy cause I still don't-  I don't fuck with school.
Only because it provided things that weren't provided at my home.
You see what I'm saying.
Like I said, poetry like came along and,  you know, once I found out how to start writing, bruh, like from-  Um,  man, I- I don't know every  person who made poetry cause, you know, poets aren't like artists like rappers.
They don't just be like, I write poetry, you know what I'm saying, and be spitting poetry bars.
Like motherfuckers write that shit in they class, it's like, in the back.
N- you know what I'm saying, just ch- y- in a cut on some cool shit, you know what I'm saying.
Like and  at that time, like ninth grade- like ninth grade's when I started  full-fledge  everything.
The poetry, the rap, you know what I'm saying.
It fused together to where, you know what I'm saying, from ninth grade on, I propelled from there,  you know what I'm saying, but-  middle school, I had the foundation  of poetry.
Right, right.
Yeah, like  it came natural, you know what I'm saying, like this-  it wasn't forced.
Like it was a gift that was already given to me, and  through me learning poetry, of course I'm gonna learn poetry in rhythm,  rhythm in poetry.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, bruh.
I mean,  that's  where it all started.
Some rhyme and some doesn't?
Cause you just say what- whatever comes.
I mean,  there is no preference  because with poetry, it's so-  it's infinite,  you know what I'm saying, infinite possibilities on what type of poem you can make.
So it's just like,  you know, the poetry  that rhymes,  you know, some- some poetry is just literally you s- you talking  through,  you know, stream of consciousness.
So you just saying things- you saying- you saying whatever-  it- it may be- you may use poetic terms,  you know, things like that to make it sound like a actual poem, but like it may not even rhyme.
You know, but then- Well you gotta think about, let's say  for instance, a speech  a speech has  logos, pathos, and ethos.
Alright.
So these are different terminologies in speech  that people learn but it's also used in poetry as well.
It's,  you know, the logical, emotional,  and the- shit I forgot the other one,    but, you know, around that- that concept.
So it's just like, they use  like,  you know, I'm'a have to read something.
I got- I gotta read you something.
I dismiss myself from nigga the king,  so dismiss me as a nigga when I call you queen.
Apple isn't far from the tree which means  I'm a world away from niggas falling towards me.
Out in the sun we catch vitamin D.
Offer you the finer things.
Could you catch the experience if I offered it for free?
Liberation at its best  couldn't catch a thing.
It was separating materials and physicalities  just to see if your mentality on knowledge of diamonds  that determines if it's Zeus or Poseidon.
I show you ocean.
Do you wanna fly like lightning, or is your mind set to coasting?
All retrospective just to see who you are.
I just gotta aks the questions to explore your spectrum.
So from now on what we talk about ain't out the rectum.
Rectifying,  electrifying,  conversation just to prove you're mine.
You know what I'm saying,  boom boom.
I am twenty-three years old.
Well,  five years?
Well,   in f-  in five years, it's a- it's almost like, you know, tomorrow's not promised.
Of course I have  my plans in my head of how things are supposed to go or what I would like, you know,  but  I'm- at this point in time,  I'm just kind of letting things evolve as-  as  I'm going  because my biggest  focus now is to keep  moving,  to keep  m-  consisting, you know what I'm saying.
Being persistent in what I'm  looking to do for the rest of my life.
Like,  you know, this is- like I explained earlier,  you know, this is a-  a-  going towards legacy,  classic,  things of that nature,  longevity.
You know, why would I- why would I aim for- aim-  aim short?
For what?
You know, if you gonna do something that's,  you know, outside of going to college and, you know, going to  outside the norm,  m- well might as well be great at it.
Make it worth it,  totally worth it.
I mean, come on, we live in a whole different generation now, like  you see what type of money out here.
Like when you get to a point to where  you have the advantage, and you can just take advantage whenever you want  at will,  you can make  the- the moves you-  you need to make.
There's money out here n- like sitting.
You know what I'm saying, like-  so it's just like,  let's get it  I'm o- n- like, my focus is on the now really.
Okay.
Why not?
I mean, you know,  just off of what you said, I trust it.
I mean,  w-  is- you know.
You gotta- you gotta- gotta be around 'em, gotta find out.
I mean, you know,  definitely it sounds like a worthwhile- I mean, t- iron sharpen iron.
That dude sound like some steel to me, man.
I'm-    Listening to music.
Yeah, like I- it's not that I can't get away from music cause I watch anime.
You know what I'm saying, that's- that's a whole nother- That's what I do- yeah, that's what I do outside of- I watch anime.
But I- I mean, I watch anime.
I watch shows that- that are interesting on Netflix.
Um,   Mm, no.
But, um, Okay.
Might have to check it out.
But I don't be like- yeah,  um,  my m- like  I listen to music.
I'm a l- music listener as well, you know.
Like, it's- it's just like I'm a fan of music, you know what I'm saying, that- that's what- that's what-  that's what it all started from.
I was a fan of music way back in  elementary.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm- I'm a fan of music, you know.
I love good music.
I mean, I love to make good music, but I love good music.
I mean, if it's good music- if it- you know what I'm saying, got a good rhythm, if I can feel it, I mean, and the thing is, who  are you to tell me what  feels good to me.
Okay.
Okay.
Absolutely.
You know how that go.
I'm about six four.
Nah- I had- I had my time hooping,  but  I'm the football player that  hooped.
And I was physical.
I was real physical.
I- I- honestly I was more like, I'm getting fouled out, cause I'm so physical, and I think everybody else need to get they weight up.
And it's not like I'm thinking that cause I saw a video where it was this dude talking about- I forgot his name.
But, uh, yeah- but, uh, yeah, it was just like, I was- I felt so guilty, cause I was like, oh my god, that's- that's me.
I like- I didn't- you know, they used to call me Shaq.
They used to call me Shaq.
Like I- cause I spe- I had- you know, I spent my time playing basketball cause I was like, shoot, you know, back in high school, like I was tryna-  you know, I was doing football.
But it was like, they wouldn't let me play basketball.
Like, it was just like, come on, man.
Like I'm- I'm telling the coach like, come on, if you just train me how to- like, here I am.
If you ju- here I am.
I'm like six two.
I'm like six one- six two in ninth grade, you know what I'm saying.
And it's just like,  here I am  ready to learn a sport,  you know what I'm saying.
Like  I'm like, hey,  but they ain't wanna take that time and that says a lot about they coaching.
And, you know, it is what it is, cause I don't really give a fuck.
I ain't in school no more.
What they gonna do, write me up?
Like, you know what I'm saying.
It is what it is.
It's just like, you know, fuck you.
Fuck you too.
You ain't wanna take time, you know, to teach me, fuck you.
Like, you know what I'm saying, so it was like, with b- with-  with school basketball, they never,  you know,  p- put me on the team.
I never made the team.
RD-NAME-2 didn't make the cut.
And it is what it is, but football was my thing.
I went to tryouts, but I wasn't a basketball player, like I don't-  the thing is- not- not folks embarrassing me, no no no.
It's more like  out of ignorance  like  of the game.
But I'm telling him like, ay, like I ain't- I don't know nothing, you know what I'm saying, I don't know nothing, and I'm six- I'm like six one, six two.
I'm like, boy, I'm like, man, I'm like, i- I'm like, as a coa- like, as somebody who-  I actually invest my time in people, you know what I'm saying.
I'm not saying that I am a coach,  but,  you know,  I coach people, you know, and it's just like as-  like  if it's somebody  with that size, if I was a f-  basketball coach, I woulda taught that kid how to freaking play.
Easy.
Easy.
And- yeah.
They team wasn't that damn big.
Oh.
Oh yeah.
Well I guess I care and shit, so.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you know, that is true that, you know, everybody got n- different-  yeah, that's real shit.
At the end of the day though,  um,  you know, that was what it was.
I wasn't supposed to be on that basketball team.
I was supposed to be on the football team.
I could believe it.
The coach is talking like, uh-uh,  I don't want him, mm-mm.
But I mean, at the same time it's just like, but still really, there's kids that actually- you know what I'm saying, but I- I know what you mean by that,  the politics behind it.
But, um,  it's just like, so, you know, because basketball didn't do it, football did it for me.
And I was like, alright.
They taught me how to play.
They was like, alright come on, we gonna get it, let's go, put on the pants.
Man, football was- I started off defense.
Defense.
I was a- I was a defensive, um, end.
Yeah.
So  I did defensive end pretty much til  eleven grade, like  and the- like half of the season eleven grade cause these mother f- like baby star  which was  coach star son  took me off of defe- defense, eleven grade, cause I got injured  o-  at practice.
A dude slid at my foot, bruh.
No, he slid his body at my f-  at- I'm the big nigga.
They sliding at me.
Tryna stop me and shit.
And they  is- chop blocking and shit, fucked my achilles up, bruh.
It is what it is, but, you know what I'm saying.
just a little injury and shit, you know.
But, um, on some gladiator sport shit.
Like that's- that's what took me off of defense.
But  the thing is, it was a blessing in disguise  because the next year,  I was a senior,  and I was starting offense.
Now mind you,  I wasn't gonna play  my twelfth grade year cause i- just because of the fact that they hit me with that bullshit.
And then I was like, I already don't wanna play.
You know what I'm saying.
I was always playing on the team.
This is-  I was just known as the football guy.
Yeah, that's the thing though, junior year, I started playing th- I was doing theater  as well.
Mind you, I-  I did track, shot put and discus from ninth grade too.
I did- I did, yeah, shot put and discus, defensive end n- from ninth grade- yeah, I was a definite le- letterman guy, for sure.
Yeah.
So when- when- you can only be surprised on how- how surprised people were when I started doing theater in eleventh grade.
They was- cause they was like Mm-hm.
The football jock is doing theater, and he's actually good at it.
He's actually good.
Like I got awards for- for a- the plays I did.
I did- RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
You know, I mean,  n-  people w-  cause the- that's the thing, you know, as a- as a  big black man, people put me in a box.
And then a-  as a artist,  you already know, people  automatically ain't gonna understand me cause they already- they looking for me to be a certain person.
I'm doing  football.
I'm doing this that and the other, so they putting stereotypes on me  that I'm this type of guy  and that I'm bound to do this.
And they don't- they don't even  think about I'm-  I'm bound to be great in something else cause they- they so focused on this thing cause it's the popular- the football and the sports and stuff is popular.
It's gonna get me a scholarship or whatever.
So, you know, e- exactly.
And it was.
And, you know, but- They don't think about what actually makes me happy, you know what I'm saying.
It's not about my actual- like setting me up for- exactly.
Who-  who can- who g- o- is setting me up to try to make, you know what I'm saying,  more than a thousand dollars.
And-  and honestly, you know, people mean well.
I- I can't fault people.
I just know I wouldn't go about it that way.
Honestly, bruh, I'm paving the way so that way, I can be on some Will and Jada, uh, new- real- Will and Jalen shit.
God damn, like on some shit, like my kid can do whatever the fuck he wants.
Whatever he wants.
Like that's lit.
That's what I'm aiming for cause I'm- I'm aiming to get it out the way so that way th- you know what I'm saying, my kid can be who he's meant to be  and not who he's-  who  like me and his mom or whoever  is forcing him- like, you know what I'm saying, like  subconsciously kind of forcing him into this person.
We may not know what we doing, you know,  just like parents, they- they're ignorant of what they do to you because  in they- in they mind, they doing what's best.
Appreciate it.
Appreciate it.
That Slay stamp.
Not even just different.
Bruh, like  rapping is just a step.
Rapping  r- d- like hip hop in itself is- is a skeleton.
It's- it's not even the whole- you know, the whole body of the work, you know what I'm saying.
It's my foundation  to be able to have opportunity to do more  cause once I'm known as a hip hop artist  and a legit hip hop artist,  then  other people are gonna be  coming at  us  with opportunities of what we can do with them.
Because they hear our shit,  and they be like, okay,  this is hot.
Okay,  I see he actually talking about something.
We have concepts, you know what I'm saying.
We are fishing for  the people we want to involve ourselves with,  and  shit,  we may get they competitors.
We may be fishing for one type of person,  and they competitors might hit us up.
And the people we actually fish for, we may not even get them,  and that's okay,   you know what I'm saying.
Like, you know, that- all that is what it is, but at the end of the day, all this is a foundation  to  get us  to  that money that's out here.
Like that's it.
Like I said, like I- this shit is out here.
It's out here.
Once we lay the foundation, bruh, like shit-  universe will god damn  shift for us.
As long as we  consistently creating, as long as are,  you know what I'm saying, consistently bringing out  these positive vibes,  you know, we're- gotta keep the positive vibes  Boy what.
Man, actually  I rock with  Vietnamese pho,  and it's spelled  P-H-O.
And I like-  I like the shrimp pho.
And I like the- a- and I like the beef pho.
Bruh, Yeah,  it's really good.
But, um, and I'll actually like it with the herbs and shit in it, like with all the not every- not e-  all of them, but, yeah, I like- I- all with- even- yeah.
All that shit.
I put it all in there.
I be like, yeah I want the-  I want the authentic god damn  a- Oh I know a place called So Ba.
It's a place called So Ba in, uh, East Atlanta Village.
Too bad they ain't paying me for this.
But hey,  I'm shouting 'em out and shit But, um, yeah, man,  I rock with So Ba in East Atlanta Village, but  there's this one in the city though.
I ain't gonna even, you know, you gonna have to pull up.
Um,    the ramen  because of Naruto.
Shout out to Naruto,  .
Um,  god damn    man, honestly  I  cook.
Like I just make sh- I just make whatever.
I'm slick a alchemist, bruh.
I just go in there and just whip up  whatever's in the kitchen, like yeah, and that's shout out to Uncle RD-NAME-1 because he the one who showed me  that all- you know what I'm saying, all these different ways and m- mechanisms and making-  making food.
M- taught me how to make a omelette  type shit.
That's definitely gonna come in handy.
Shout out Uncle RD-NAME-1  definitely.
You know.
And we still on the mother fucking airwaves,  Let's say this again.
This is RD-NAME-2 AKA RD-NAME-4 Mm, that's a good one.
See,  I'm rocking Powerade because it's cheaper.
But Gatorade has a sweeter little taste to it that  I really fuck with  because  I actually fu-   because- because,  you know, I actually did play football, and I actually like did  drink gatorade during the game.
We actually did have po- like Gatorade, like yeah.
The- the-  the powder mix, bruh.
The powder mix.
We had the powder mix on lock, bruh, definitely.
We was in that bitch with that shit, bruh.
Mm.
Yeah,  you can.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Powerade has saved my thirst and quenched my thirst so many times.
N-  like  you n- you know they know why.
They- you know they know they got the ingredient.
Oh really.
I could believe that.
They could.
n- They could.
Bruh, what?
I ain't wanna say that.
I ain't wanna go there.
I ain't wanna go to the hood days  I was like ay, this- this shit really kind of tastes like Kool-Aid, but it's really like thirst quencher type shit.
Like, bruh.
Cause you could just put the sugar in the mother fucking water in that bitch.
a-  and then, put packets in that mother fucker and have a whole gallon.
That shit- you save a lot of money, like drinking the Kool-Aid if you think about it was only- it was a- yeah it only amounted just about three dollars.
Make you some Kool-Aid every week  and have- use half a pound or a quarter of-   As long as a nigga had Kool-Aid, bruh, we good.
E- oh no, that- that's a whole nother stress right there.
Kool-Aid no sugar.
Just might as well drink some water.
And that's  pretty much the healthiest of the healthiest water.
Well,  actually,  you know, there's  o-  there's just- biggest thing that- yeah.
And I'll go into that.
So- right, right, right.
Man, you know, my- my biggest  advice to all the artists that's  starting out  and  really looking to  have longevity  with what they doing,  you know, just  creating the mindset of  consistency  and  persistence.
You know,  things happen to where  the b-  bumps in the road come, and you start  thinking like,  I can't do this anymore.
What I'm doing right now  is  pretty much  giving up on myself.
I'm like, nah nah nah nah.
I gotta find  a better way  to get this money  because, you know, what it all comes down to is  niggas be broke,  and they be like, yo hold up.
But there's  a thing that we have to realize, you know.
Whatever we do,  our time is precious.
It's all gonna add up in the end.
And  it's just like,  you know,  at the end of the day, what football taught me  was just  that struggle is, you know what I'm saying, necessary  to get to the top  of what you trying to get to.
You have to struggle a little bit.
Hold on.
So I heard this poem, and this is  a poem  called Invictus,  and this is by William Ernest Henley.
Out of the night that covers me,  black as the pit from pole to pole,  I thank whatever gods may be  for my unconquerable soul.
In the fell clutch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud.
Under the bludgeonings of chance  my head is bloody  but unbowed.
Beyond this place of wrath and tears looms but the horror of the shade,  and yet  the menace of the years  finds and shall find me  unafraid.
It matters not how strait  the gate,  how charged with punishments the scroll,  I  am the master of my fate.
I am  the captain of my soul.
So Definitely, definitely.
I appreciate that.