RD-NAME-2 I'm just chilling for real.
I just got back from LA, so.
Uh, it's vibrant.
It's palm trees,  oceans, birds,  foreign whips, redbones for days.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, it's- it's a little different.
It's just-  it's- we don't have palm trees.
You go to a neighborhood, all the houses formatted the same .
You go to  Cali, all the houses are different, painted different, they all have they own personalities.
Uh, Sh- started off in Inglewood, went to,  um, Inglewood, Slauson, went by Nipsey Hussle Marathon store.
Um, we stayed in Los Feliz.
Um, psh in Fairfax um, Rodeo Drive, Melrose.
We was all around the place, man.
Santa Monica, Venice Beach.
Man, we- we were- ay, swift.
Yeah.
I just got back.
Oh, pretty soon, man, pretty soon.
Need those vibes.
Man, let me see,   going on fourteen years.
Yeah.
The  Birmingham, Alabama.
You know it.
Oh no, most definitely, man.
Next door neighbors, man.
All represent the South.
Alabama.
Come on.
But overall, nigga, I represent the South.
I represent the struggle.
I represent the people  who come from nothing  no matter where I'm from.
I represent the real.
Yeah, I'm a artist.
Oh yeah, I mean that's what it is.
Ain't no use in tryna look at it some other than way it was.
Barber by day, artist at night.
I mean, really- it's really what we define music game, but I guess when you s- I guess you more talking about- Well actually, you know, it's funny you aks this question cause you- you- you was there, so, you know, you've b- you've been around since when I first started rapping.
I think I was like twenty-two, twenty ten.
You know, started with the whole RD-NAME-3.
Yeah, and it just- the name switch, I think you was one of the first people I te- I told at the barber shop I was gonna change my name to RD-NAME-2.
Yeah, to RD-NAME-3 to RD-NAME-2.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, man.
It's a process.
It's- it's- uh, everybody-  I- I hate to say it now because it seems so trendy, but, you know, you really do gotta trust your process.
You gotta-  you know, people ma- I hate when people make stuff a trend, man, cause then it don't even seem cool to say it no more.
It seem like you biting.
But, you know, at the end of the day, I do believe in the process.
I do believe in  not even the process but evolution.
You know what I'm saying, if you do something for a certain amount of time, you have no choice but to get better at it if you apply yourself the right type of way.
I-  I know RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2?
Yeah, we used to be w- uh, RD-NAME-1 Yeah.
One producer kind of big, right?
Short?
Used to b- used to produce with Travis Porter?
Yeah.
Just big big people.
I brung up who?
Nah, I was talking about RD-NAME-1  as in- Nah.
I was talking about the other RD-NAME-1, the one that produced for, um,  RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 on the beat.
He pr- he used to produce with, um,  RD-NAME-3.
It was RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-2,  but his real name RD-NAME-1 though.
Man, he brown skin.
I am the classic one.
I mean, hey, hey.
Whatever you wanna talk about, brother.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Man, Thirty Roc a beast, man.
Thirty Roc a beast.
His success is- I don't even think he really touched the surface yet.
As- as big as he's-  the world see him, I still think he got-  not saying- to take away from- he got a ways to go, man.
Thirty Roc dope, man.
He d- he's before his time, like he going crazy right now, but  I know where he can go.
I know his- his potential.
He ain't even touched the surface yet.
Like he got so much more to go.
He only what, twenty-three, twenty-four?
So it's just like- I got records  on Thirty Roc that's beats that's way harder than stuff he putting out.
Not to say that's not how he putting out, but I got some stuff, some classic stuff I'm sitting on with him, but man, he, um, uh, man, um, yeah, he going crazy right now, man.
You know, I cut his hair every week, you know what I'm saying, that's my dog, man.
That's my boy.
That's my bro, man.
Tha- Yeah.
Yeah.
That's my dog, uh,  so well I look out for him and he look out for me, man.
We just make it happen, man.
You know how it go.
I mean,  me personally, I've always been a person to just help people.
That's just my personality.
I always like helping people when I-  when I can and, um,  but I also know how the game go as well, you know what I'm saying, I invest in  friendships.
I invest in everything.
I don't necessarily look for anything in return, but nowadays it's like  we-  i- it's- it's- it's no- it's n- it's not like I'm going into it saying like, ay, you got to have this done, or you got to have this done.
It's more so me saying like,  man, you gotta bring something to the table.
Whatchu bringing to the table?
You- if you want something from me, I mean what you bringing to the table?
If not, you just gonna have to come out  the pockets on everything, and sometimes you might not have the bread to do something, and it's like, alright.
You look out for me.
I look out for you, and let's just keep looking out for each other  until we can god damn  throw each other fifteen, twenty thousand for whatever we need, you know what I'm saying.
Until- until somebody get- and cross that threshold, you know what I'm saying.
Like I tell all my people, like,  I can't promise you nothing,  but when I get it, I g- I w- I will look out for you.
You know what I'm saying, I can't promise you nothing when I ain't got it, but if I get it before you get it, you got it, so.
Uh,  well I don't te- I don't tell a lot of people that.
So the few who I tell that, you know what I'm saying, they already know what's up.
And I tell them too.
I say, you get on, bruh.
I'm packing my bags.
I be on that bougie shit- well look  Could you repeat that question one more time?
I'm'a make sure I understand you clearly.
Man, I'm really so lost in the question.
You said  but I compensate somebody now- Oh yeah, it's happened plenty of times.
Plenty of times.
I- I- I mean, you know, in s- in some sense it's- to answer the first question first, I don't really do it for them to help me out.
I do it because, you know, it's- it's out the kindness of my heart.
But I do  think about the fact that when they get somewhere-  you know, you invest in friendships and- and- and relationships for example  you know what I'm saying, I'm looking out for you cause I know  I can help you get to somewhere you need to go.
So  when you get there, if you get there before I do,  just help me out.
That's all I ask.
When motherfuckers  will shit on you  before they even realize what you got.
And a lot of people- I done had people  come stay at my house, you know what I'm saying, had ro- wrecked they cars and w- get- got my mechanic to fix it for a little nothing.
They- I ain't even reach back to say  hello.
And I still show love, but it's just like, you know, I don't forget.
You know what I'm saying, but I don't never let  nothing like that go over my head cause, you know, we'll kill ourselves tryna worry about  other people decisions, you know what I'm saying.
God'll take care of that.
I ain't gotta worry about that.
I'm Gucci.
I mean, shit,  they don't come to my shows.
You- you know, you wanna- you- you wanna- you wanna- you wanna-  what year you graduated though?
Alright then, so you not even in the- in the reunion question.
Talking about the o seven fam.
And the ones who I do rock with, they see me and they know what's up, you know what I'm saying.
It's like ain't nothing- ain't nothing- but I mean, at the end of the day, yeah.
I- I'm- I'm around.
I'm arou- I'm around the area, but I mean, a reunion like they couldn't even get it together,  you know what I'm saying.
But I ain't- I ain't really too worried about that.
I ain't put too much energy into even thinking about that.
I'm tryna live my life, man.
Hell, I'd rather go to o eight, o nine reunion anyway.
Well, you know folks, man- folks- Mm, everybody got babies and stuff anyway, so.
Everybody got babies and stuff, so it's just like,  ay, let 'em do what they do.
I'm twenty-nine.
Man,  I'm a god.
That's my nationality.
I-  you see the Bible say God made us  like him.
You just gotta evolve your mindset.
You evolve your mind, you'll understand what I'm saying.
But if you can't, then you just ain't got that yet.
It's levels to this life thing.
You know, I'm just- this just the physical me.
People don't know what go on in the temple.
You know what I'm saying, it's- it's a- it's a lot of magical stuff that goes on in there, real godly like.
Sometimes I don't even understand it til I go back and listen to it.
Nah, they gonna have to go back and listen to it.
Cause it's going in, everything, from day one, man.
I mean,  I don't really care why they like it, you know what I'm saying.
It j- I just w- if it- if it- if it move you,  then a- I mean, rock with it.
If it don't move you, then don't rock with it.