RD-NAME-4 Last time I checked, yes.
I identify as African American.
Nineteen ninety-two.
S- seven.
Outside of here within those seven years?
puh  Um,  Philly,  Jersey,  um,  I spent a couple months in Florida,  mm,  not really nowhere major.
I spent like  two weeks in Baltimore,  you know,  regular shit.
Uh,  one year of college.
It really didn't work out too well.
Honestly,  I'm a hustler.
I really don't have  an occupation.
When you got  two kids you really can't  have a  set occupation, so  whatever.
What I want to do though,  I'm tryna  become a nurse.
That's pretty much what I wanna do.
But- My mother and my father were both  born and  raised in New Jersey.
My mother has her master's in psychology,  and my father is  a scam artist.
Imagine growing up with it.
Alright.
How much time you got?
Uh,  yeah,  it's-  it's a big-  it's a big culture shock  especially when you-  when you were born and raised, and you grew up a certain way, and then you come  to somewhere where it's the complete opposite.
Yeah, it's definitely a culture shock,  but  mostly positive, you know what I'm saying.
So  it's definitely the place, like I said, the-  the land of opportunity for our people anyway,  for colored people should I say, not necessarily Black  but just  people who ain't white.
Puerto Ricans, Mexicans, Black people,  you know, Muslims,  all of that.
No, you said it right the first time.
Racism is a- it exists.
It's very real  and  I'm Black, so  I'm naturally  the target of it.
I'm a Black young female,  so  I had three strikes against me coming out the womb, but it's strikes that I'll- that I wear with pride.
So  it's a- it exists.
It's real.
It's very real here.
Um,  sadly  the- shocking part for me though, even though it is very real in the South,  I've experienced  less  racism here than I have growing up where I grew up,  you feel what I'm saying.
Like  growing up where I grew up,  different ethnicities  were racist against each other.
There were Chinese people that did not like Black people.
There are Puerto Rican people who  do not like Mexicans.
So  coming here where it's like,  no  white people don't like colored people.
It has nothing to-  it- it has everything to do with being Black, but  it's not just being Black.
It's colored people,  people who are not white are not welcome.
And that's real,  and  I think once people ch-  get over the fact that-  get over the whole idea of tryna bring us all together and become one and  make us all equal or make us equal in their eyes.
Once we get over that fact, then we'll be able to conquer this whole thing and get past it.
But until then,  as long as we're tryna become equal to them,  we will  always  be in a struggle with them.
Yes, I do.
I have  two little sisters and now  two little brothers.
I- I am the oldest of everybody.
Very.
Yes.
M- my  younger sister RD-NAME-3.
That- she is my favorite.
Because  I've been so involved with her life  since the day she was born that  she was my kid before my kids was my kids.
Shut up, Sparky.
Sorry about that.
Sorry about that.
But yeah she's been my kid since before my kids were my kids, so y-  that's m- that's my-  that's my heart.
But I love all of them just as much, but  that's my baby.
Um, I do have  a few aunts.
When I say a few,  literally,  maybe two that I am very very close with.
Um,  cousins,  very close with them,  most-  some of them,  not all of them, but some of them.
Basically pretty much the ones that I grew up with  for the most part I'm close with.
Um, like I said, my aunts and uncles-  my uncles,    I grew up with them, so they raised me.
But after I got a certain age, it was-  it kind of got shaky  which is natural, but  for the most part I love all my family.
I love anybody who loves me.
Hoo.
Which one?
I went to f- one, two.
I went to two different middle schools which were also culture shocks.
I went to couple schools here, but  I grew up,  like I said, in Jersey, so I went to school in Jersey.
Um, I went to a middle school- I went to two different middle schools.
I went to a charter school, and then I went to a public middle school.
Needless to say I got kicked out of the charter school, and I had to go to the public school.
But it was-  it was very different, and  it was being ran by a white guy,  and  that's where the difference came in.
It was- it's hard to teach-  it's hard to teach something to someone when y-  you don't know anything about them.
You can't teach me.
You don't know me.
How can you teach me?
You can't teach me what you know because we don't know.
We don't come from the same place.
You're a Jewish white man.
I'm a young Black little girl.
We don't have the same  situation happening here,  so it's hard for me to feel like I can look to you for guidance or edu-  or  education or anything else like that when  y- I know for a fact you don't understand me.
You don't know what it's like for me when I walk out of these doors,  just like I don't know what it's like for you when you walk out of these doors.
So  that- that was a-  that  played a big part in one of the reasons why I got kicked out.
So once I got kicked out and I went to a  predominantly  colored school, it was different.
They understood.
And it was funny because my teacher was a white man, but  he  spent  all his life around  African American people.
His wife was African American.
So  his m-  father  was African American, so it wasn't like he was too far off base.
My teacher.
The white teacher.
Yeah.
His biological father was white,  but his mother-  I mean his biological father was Black,  but his mother was white.
But he looked white He didn't look extra white, but he looked white.
When you looked at him,  you th- automatically thought white.
You did not think, oh he's Black.
Now once you got close up on him, you probably be like,  oh okay, he got curly hair.
His nose not like white people.
He ain't got green or blue eyes.
His eyes is brown, you know what I'm saying.
He had a little soul in his voice.
Yeah, you could tell he grew up around Black people, or somebody in his family somewhere is Black.
But  when you look at him, he looks like a white man.
Yes, and I love him.
I just watched his performance on the VMAs.
No, he's not.
He's not white.
He's Black and Jewish.
Um, the charter school  was  I wanna say about  thirty,  thirty-five minutes  a drive.
But the public school  was  a walk literally.
It was around- literally around the corner.
Like I could walk up one block and hit a corner and hit another corner, and I was at school.
Yeah.
I walked every day.
Absolutely.
No, I d- I didn't need a crew when I walked.
What I- did I have a crew at school?
Yeah, but  I didn't need a crew.
No, I was cool.
Get into a whole lot of trouble.
Yeah.
I was a horrible child.
I tell my mother every day, God bless her and I love her for putting up with me cause I was  the worst.
Cause I was that kid that-  you know how you had that kid growing up in school that your parents be like, stay away from them.
I was that kid.
And my mom will- if I could call my mother right now, if she wasn't at work, a- she would tell you, no,  I used to have-  I used to hafta get into  verbal  borderline physical altercations with people because they just swore they knew my child and would tell their children to stay away from my child,  and she was nothing like that.
I was a different person at school  and outside in the streets than I was to my mother at home.
No, he barking at whoever's walking past.
Shut up.
Cause Grandma be trying to watch her stories and get some peace, and he be barking at nobody for no  god damn reason.
Shut your ass up, nigga.
That's exactly what you came down the stairs for, like, who?
Um,  they tried to fight me.
Um,  it was two girls, one boy  who is gay, and  one Puerto Rican girl.
And the two girls were twins, RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-3,  and RD-NAME-3 tried to fight me.
No, I told 'em, I'll whoop both of y'all asses.
What's up?
They didn't wanna fight me.
Mm-hm.
I just wrote RD-NAME-3 on Facebook two days ago.
Real recognize real, and people are gonna give respect to those who demand it, not who aks for it.
Um, I met them through a  m-  mutual friend,  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-4.
Um,  she just-  it was at a time at-  not too long ago, but it was at a time when we were really just really  F-ed up  in the streets.
And  after being surrounded by so many  messed up bad people your whole life,  you kind of have that urge to just be surrounded by people who just  are on the same shit you on, who just want the same things out of life you want.
And  she introduced me to everybody,  you included, and we all just clicked.
And  that's-  I haven't been rocking with nobody else but y'all.
So that's pretty much how that went.
Honestly my typical weekend revol-  involve me just chilling.
I really don't-  I'm not a  club kind of person.
I don't really feel the need or the urge to go out.
I might  go somebody's house, kick it, watch a game or  somebody's eating-  cooking out or something like that, but,  you know, grown people shit.
I really don't do too much-  too many clubs.
I think  maybe I went to a club like maybe two weekends ago,  and that was my first time going to a club in  years.
Thanksgiving.
Thanksgiving was a huge  huge tradition in my family.
Um,  everybody got together at Grandma's house, and I mean  everybody.
Everybody,  aunts, uncles,  twice removed, once removed, people who just been in the family for years,  cousins I haven't seen in forever, everybody  came to Grandma's house in Jersey, and  she would  ha- turn the whole garage into a buffet and cook and all that other stuff.
And we drinking, and we playing domi- somebody playing dominoes in this room.
Somebody playing cards in the other room.
Somebody- they-  my uncles is out back playing dice.
It's-  it's-  Thanksgiving was the thing.
That was the time where everybody caught up with each other.
Everybody linked up, seen family members they ain't seen in years,  all of that.
Thanksgiving was definitely  a tradition.
Yeah.
Thanksgiving is  wha- that was-  that was the main event like we would  plan in the beginning of year for Thanksgiving cause  it was like, who's coming?
How many bedrooms do we need?
How many blow up mattresses?
How many rooms do we need to rent out?
How many turkeys do we need to get?
How much food we need to get?
It was  definitely a event.
Grandma.
That's it, no one else.
Don't bring nothing.
No you can't bring no dish.
No I don't need your help in this kitchen.
Nothing.
Grandma.
Grandma threw it down.
That was it.
You just come, and you eat.
With my family?
If I can,  I will try, but  me and my family, we don't have the closest dynamic in the world  now,  so.
When I- family, yeah.
Not like- my new family, the people- I consider all of y'all my family.
So now will I keep that type of tradition alive with my- with my family?
Hell yeah.
Thanksgiving is definitely popping at my house this year.
Um, the  majority of my family, yeah, is pretty much scattered  all around the East Coast.
Um,  but as far as my immediate family,  they're here.
My mom, my stepdad, my little brothers, they're here.
RD-ADDRESS-2 RD-ADDRESS-2  off of RD-ADDRESS-2 Road.
Over there on a-  in Ellenwood, Georgia.
Mm-hm.
Depressing.
Cause when you come from somewhere that's so active,  and you come to somewhere that's so secluded,  it's a shock,  especially as a young child,  or not even as a young child, as a teenager who's used to living their life a certain way, used to seeing  certain things and hearing certain things.
And then you come to somewhere where  across the street instead of it being a grocery store- I mean instead of being a corner store or a laundromat or whatever, it's  nothing  but trees.
Automatically.
It was the neighborhood.
It was the cul-de-sac, and our- that's- that's all it was.
And that was, like I said,  a culture shock.
O-  I'll never forget when we pulled up at the-  on our way  I didn't know.
When we were  pulling into the neighborhood, I did not know that we were pulling into the neighborhood.
I thought that we were still on the main road to get to wherever we were going.
So when we stopped the truck, I thought we were at a truck stop somewhere to, you know, rest or whatever.
And then I get out the car, and the next thing I know, I see my mom and my dad and everybody's getting out the truck.
And I'm like, why are we all stopping here?
And they were like, this is it.
And I'm like, what's it?
It's like, nah, this is where we living.
Who's living here?
Where's the stores?
Where's the buses?
Where's the cabs?
Where's the trains?
Where's the noise?
Where is the s- Where's the sidewalks?
Where's the sidewalks?
There's no sidewalks here.
So it was- like I said, it was definitely  an adjustment  for sure.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Safer in the sense of  when you're up north, whatever's going on, you see it.
If there's drugs  being sold, you see it.
Police riding by in helicopters,  fire-  fire department,  crack heads outside screaming arguing with each other, drunks on the corner  yelling, smashing bottles,  all that.
You see it.
You hear it.
It's directly in front of your face, cannot be avoided.
Down here you don't see that.
There is no  crack heads on the corner.
There is no  winos walking up and down the block.
There is no-  there isn't that.
Now in that aspect, yes.
It did seem safer, but, like I said, that's the  beauty in the beast  of  being here  because just cause you don't see it, that don't mean it ain't happening.
You just don't see it.
That's it.
That's it.
I-  I-  listen.
Listen.
I thought- I was like, oh it's great down here.
It's safe.
It's peaceful.
It's this.
It's that.
And lo and behold, three si-  I believe  between three to six months of me first moving here, somebody  found a girl in the woods  two-  maybe like two minutes from where I was living.
So I was just like, oh okay.
So they get it popping down here.
They just don't get it  popping in front of your face, but it's goi- it's going down.
And then once I got to get out and explore the neighborhood that I was in more, I realized like, oh,  no,  y'all got the shits.
Y'all just  covering it up with  m-  trees and grass and really nice houses.
Yes.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Um,  jawn.
J-A-W-N,  jawn.
The thing.
That place.
I'm about to go to the jawn.
Or remember that jawn I left at your house, or ayo remember that jawn that we passed that day?
Remember that jawn that we walked passed that day, and she stopped and said- jawn is a universal word.
You feeling what I'm saying.
So that's-  that's something that y'all don't use.
Y'all don't say jawn.
Or y- you-  bruh, you lacking  right now.
You lacking.
Or you- you- you diddy bopping.
Or-  That means you on some other shit.
That means you- you- that means you tweaking.
You- you feel what I'm saying, that's a Southern word.
Tweaking, that's- that's y'all.
You tweaking right now, bruh.
Well maybe that- yeah, that might be Jersey.
That's something that I say.
You tweaking right now, or you bugging.
You wilding out.
You illing right now, like the fuck is going on?
You got- like, you- you on some other shit.
Like that's basically what that means.
Down here  it's shorty tripping.
Bruh on some other shit.
Yeah.
Down here it's more of phrases.
Bruh, what the fuck you got going on?
The-  that's a na-   when somebody says something to someone, like I be- I hang out with a lot of males, so when I hear, bruh-  men talk to each other, I can pretty much guess wha- especially down here, I can pretty much guess off the top of my head what they're going to say next.
And usually whatever they'll say  everybody else is about to say the same thing, so everybody else bust out laughing, like bruh, I was about to say the same damn thing.
Bruh, what the fuck you got going on, bruh?
Shorty, you tripping.
Shit like that.
You feel what I'm saying?
Like so I can turn it on turn it off, but it's- like I said, it's phrases straight like that.
Y'all- y'all are more of  phrases  as we have words.
We can say one word, and it means exactly what we're- you know exactly what we're talking about  from Jersey to Jersey.
Down here y'all can say a phrase and- no, but the way you say it, you know exactly what the person is talking about.
Like if somebody say, ay bruh, what you doing?
Ah nothing,  just kicking shit.
You know exactly what they're doing.
They either chilling at the house, or if they say, I'm just kicking shit with shorty,  they chilling somewhere with they girl.
If you aks  Jersey to Jersey,  yo what you got going on, homie?
Nothing, cooling in the crib.
That means I'm chilling with my girl.
It's the same thing, but y'all say it a different way.
Yes.
Okay.
So when I first moved down here,  like I said,  I moved into a neighborhood, so you gotta get- get to know everybody in the cul-de-sac.
That's a- that's another  Georgia thing.
Y'all w- y'all t- get to know  y'all neighbors.
Like  up north  if we see somebody pull in the neighborhood, we like, who the fuck is that?
Down here y'all see somebody pull in the neighborhood, y'all ain't pay attention.
Y'all like, oh that's such and such.
You live up the street.
Been here for like twenty years.
I went to school with his kid.
Like, some shit like that.
So when I first moved down here,   I was getting to know everybody in the neighborhood, and  I'll never forget him.
I still talk to him to this day.
His name was RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2.
Called him RD-NAME-2.
And  RD-NAME-2 used to smoke a lot of weed and sip a lot of drink  at one point in time.
So  I would catch the first word  and the last word  of  everything he said,  and I could never understand what he said.
It was like as if he just blended all the words into one long ass word.
So I used to be like- I used to literally have to tap on homie, be like, yo,  what'd he say?
And they be like, nah, what he said was, he was about to go over here and pick up this person, then he was gonna come back over here, and- or whatever,  you know what I'm saying.
That's what he said.
I used to be like, oh okay, cool, cool, cool, cool.
So i- I was- but after- like I said, after being here for  couple years, it-  it starts to register.
And so it's like, okay, now I know what he's talking about.
But when I first got down here, I was like,  bruh just sound like he just said a bunch of different-  like,  he just sound like he just mumbled.
He said the first word and the last word, and everything else in between was just one big ass mumble.
Like and this is when he was sober, I used to be like, what  did he  just say?
Did he just call me a bitch?
And they like, nah, nah, nah, he ain't call you a bitch.
He- he ain't call you a bitch.
He just-  he just said the word bitch, but he ain't call you a bitch.
And I'm like,  oh okay.
Yes.
I did.
I had to read the lyrics though, I'm not gonna lie to you.
I had to look up the lyrics.
I had to look up to lyrics.
I had to.
I'll never forget it cause I remember going on YouTube and being like, yo, this song goes so hard.
I need to figure out what he's saying cause I know he's saying something worth saying.
So when I figured out the lyrics, I was just like, oh yeah, I fucks with this song.
It was just like, what?
But that's come from years of listening to Future and understanding his lingo to the point where you know what he's saying now.
What you mean like, here or there?
Um, See  I grew up really rough,  so  the girls that I hung out with act like boys, and then I hung out with boys.
So  we didn't play the  kiddy games, the hide and go seek.
We slap boxing.
y- y- you feel what I'm saying.
We- we teaching each other how to shoot dice.
We playing checkers.
We- w-  we doing shit like that.
That's like w- we're not really  playing hide and go seek, or tic-tac-toe or double du- I mean, no.
Double Dutch, that was the shit.
We did that.
Yeah, but  yeah, double Dutch, stuff like that.
Hopscotch, we definitely did hopscotch.
We put our own little spin on it.
Um, we played four corners, lot of basketball, lot of volleyball.
Um,  but yeah, I hung out with mostly  boys, so it was like I was really-  really didn't-  I really wasn't into the  let's play a game thing.
It was more like,  let's get into some shit  like-   Yeah.
Yeah, I did.
I just loved doing it.
It really wasn't nothing.
I did not sign up for the team or m- in basketball, nothing like that.
That really wasn't my thing.
I just-  my mom  is amazing at the sport, and she loves the sport, and  it made me love the sport.
So  I just- I like playing for fun.
I like watching it,  but  as far as me joining a team, that was never really my thing.
Only team that I joined was the football team.
Yeah.
a- Yeah.
Basketball?
I have to say even though I know they're probably gonna choke at some point in time this year, I bleed green.
I love the Eagles.
I can't help it.
Um, my grandfather was a huge ginormous fan of the, uh, Jets, um, and the Giants.
He loved the New York Giants.
Loved  the New York Giants.
Um,    basketball, I pretty much don't have a specific team.
I'm more of a  players type, cause now it's like-  well, I'm lying.
I love  the Golden Warriors.
Golden Gate Warriors?
Whatever, whatever they are.
But I don't do teams I love Steph Curry.
That is my dude.
Do you hear what I'm saying.
Kevin Durant, that's my- the holy trinity.
I love all three of 'em.
But I love Steph Curry, and I loved Steph Curry long before he won.
I mean I was a Steph Curry  fan.
I was a Steph Curry fan long before he won, long before any of the- all these other people started wearing yellow and blue and go- and white.
No, I was a fan of him.
I loved him long before all of this happened.
So  I'm more of a players fan.
I love LeBron.
I love Kevin.
Um,  I love Dwyane.
I love Bosh.
I love all of them.
Like I love the-  I'm more of a players type of person.
I'm not really a team anymore.
Like I'm glad that  the team won that had my favorite player on it though, but  I'm more of a  player type.
I'm not- I don't really like teams anymore.
That's- okay.
You see what's going on between Durant and LeBron right now.
Like they don't- it ain't even about the team no more.
It's about the individual player at this point.
So  I'm more of a players fan.
I'm not more of a  team fan.
But NFL, I'm more of a team fan,  and  I love the Eagles  to death.
Yes I did.
Yes, I did.
Amazing.
People think they can't do things just because they don't- if you-  p- if you train your body to get used to something  you'll be able to build up a tolerance for it, just like people say, oh I don't drink,  but  you see  everybody else is drinking.
Why?
Cause they built up a tolerance for it.
I'm pretty sure at one point in time, they didn't drink either.
You know what I'm saying, so  it has nothing to do with really-  you can-  as Black people, we have a lot of power,  and I know this sounds really cheesy, but we have a lot of power.
There are things that we can do that other cultures, other  beings cannot do.
And for them to say, oh, be careful of the sun.
Don't look into the sun cause it might hurt your eyes or fuck with your eyes.
We are sun people.
You feel what I'm saying.
So you telling me not to look into the sun cause I'm gonna go blind, that sounds stupid.
My ancestors, where I come from, we are sun people.
Why can't I look into the sun?
Don't stare at it  for three hours or thirty minutes, but you can look up at the eclipse.
Ah, it's a shadow.
It's a big ass global shadow.
It's not really that big of a deal.
I mean the fact- only reason that people make such a big deal of it cause it happens every bajillion years.
But it ain't nothing but worldwide big ass shadow.
You wanna see eclipse?
Hell,  go outside around this time.
That's exactly what it feels like.
In a few years?
We got a problem.
If it is another one coming, w- we gotta-  that's- we got more to worry about than the eclipse.
If another one comes in a few years, I'm not going outside.
That's it.
I'm with you.
We gonna be- our Black asses gonna be inside in the mother fucking house.
Yeah, it ain't.
That's cool.
Mm-hm.
Restaurant, that's hard because  all the food here is so damn good.
Like   Lord, it's so hard to pick one place to eat here cause it's like,  huh,   it's so many places I could go get- so good-  such good  food.
And it's so many amazing things to see here.
That's  the s- difference between Atlanta or Georgia in itself and  other places.
It's so  much here.
It's so much to offer here  if people just really look at it.
Don't look at it for what it is.
Look at it like-  Georgia has a lot of culture.
Atlanta has a lot of culture in it.
It's a lot of different races and  different artists with a lot of things to offer.
So  going to a dinner and a movie, that's  considered boring nowadays.
Now it's like going for drinks and going to a art exhibit.
Like just not too long ago, me and my boyfriend, we went to a thing called sip and stroke in Atlanta where apparently you drink and you get taught how to paint.
Like that's the normal thing to do now, you know what I'm saying, then we went to the ferris wheel afterwards.
Like that's the normal thing to do now.
What?
Bruh.
That's another Atlanta word.
Georgia, bruh.
I- I used to hate it.
Now I l- use it like every other sentence.
Bruh.
Bruh, that's y'all.
I don't care what nobody say, that is y'all.
Bruh.
Nah.
Y'all-  y'all created, patented, and trended the bruh.
No one else, and I don't care what nobody else say, people was saying bro not bruh.
Nobody was saying bruh until one of y'all from here said,  bruh.
And that's when everybody start- that's when it became contagious.
But  everybody was saying bro.
That's whe- but a- I noticed that once the females started doing it, that's when y'all stopped,  like-  Y'all say it, but y'all don't say it.
Now when females say, y'all be like,  is that a boy?
No.
Then why are you calling her bruh?
Bruh.