My name is RD-NAME-4.
I'm a female.
I am two-   it's two and  more r- races, two or more races.
I'm black.
And then I have a little bit of Spaniard.
Okay.
Nineteen eighty-four of April.
Mm-hm.
I'm a Aries, very feisty.
Loyal.
Brooklyn, New York.
Don't be- don't be nervous.
Just for five years.
It's cool.
It's- it's alright, you know, s- nice stop- place to stop before I go on my travels.
I did some college- some college, but I didn't finish.
And then, I also went to, um, cosmetology school for  hairdressing and all things fashion, and hair and nails, so  yeah.
Right now I'm working at RD-WORK-6 which is to be changed soon, I'm looking to start  working in the field of makeup, something that I love, so,  yeah.
Ma and Pa Dukes?
Okay,  I grew up with my moms.
My pops is from the same place, they're both from St.
Vincent and the Grenadines.
Um, my mom has four sisters.
Um,    my dad, I don't know too much about his side, all I know is he's, uh,  black and from the Caribbean, and  that's it.
I didn't really grow up with him, so.
Mommy grew up with her grandparents on her dad's side which is where I get the Spaniards from.
And um,  Yeah, she grew up by herself away from her sisters, so,  yeah, that's it.
She's a Scorpio.
I'm Aries.
Um, I'm really excited about my YouTube channel that I just started.
Um, which has a lot to do  with health and beauty,  um, a lot of things that I'm into.
It's gonna expand into cooking and different various things like that that I am interested in.
I'm interested in a lot of stuff, I like to draw, I like to do photoshop, Adobe.
Um, I like to do graphics, like visual graphics.
Um, I also love,  um, just makeup, so that's what I'm trying to get into that field.
Hair, I really love doing hair, but I feel like, um, a lot of people does hair, so it's good to be multifaceted.
Um, I'm into video.
Um,    like video editing and doing anything of that- that nature.
Maybe that could take me somewhere, into like movies or something like that.
And, um,  oh, cartoons, def- very much want to do a voice over for-  for cartoons and stuff like that.
So there's a lot of things that I'm interested in, it's not just one, so.
Yeah, I'm creative, artistic arts- artsy, fartsy type person,  geeky or whatever y'all want to call it.
Um, I connect with go-getters, people that  go after what they want,  and they actually make it happen,  you know, not just, you know, people that just talk all the time.
Actually take your right foot and left foot, and you do what you supposed to do to get there.
Uh, I don't really  consider a lot of people friends.
I have a lot of associates.
Because I feel like a friend is somebody that you should be able to call on and rely on  in like the toughest times of your life, and  if it's only for me to just  party with you,  um, yeah not-  that's not gonna happen.
Like I need you to be somebody that, um,  I could learn from and you could learn from me and you actually tell me about my mistakes and I tell you about your mistakes.
All while still heading towards, um, individual goals,  and  just still, you know, helping each other and things like that.
So    that's the type of friends  I have, and I could count them on one hand.
Yeah.
Um,  m-  a coup- well, two of my friends  that I would call really loyal,  they're in New York.
Uh, one just moved, I think to Florida or something like that.
Yeah so she's gone,  and then, um, another young girl that I kind of mentor, and she- she's becoming a friend.
She lives here.
She's from New York too.
Um, and the last person is my boyfriend.
But I met him here.
He's from here.
He's my boyfriend.
He's my boyfriend and my best friend.
One of the five-   Um,  RD-NAME-2, I met her at RD-WORK-6.
She came in to  get a job, and I was working there.
She's a little bit younger than me.
But, um, we connected on  the purs-  purpose of us both living in New York even though she's from the Bronx.
And, um,  yeah that's about it.
She's cool, and her parents are from the Caribbean too.
But a different- you know, they're from Jamaica.
And my parents from St.
Vincent, so we could kind of like,  I don't know, connect on that part, and she's a go-getter like me.
Need a couple kicks just because she's younger but,  you know,  in the right direction not actual kicks.
But like,  yeah,  I think that's why we connected, and that's where I met her.
About a year.
A year and some-  well, yeah like a year and some months, probably like four- four months or so.
I've stopped counting.
Usually for me to get to work, I have to take a Uber.
I take a Uber to work  cause I don't have a car right now.
And I don't have my license, so I am working on  obtaining that- that license, so I could then work on getting me a car.
Cause it's totally different, like in New York you have your  transportation, train station, you don't need none of that extra stuff, everything is kind of on your doorstep.
And out here you have to actually,  um, have a car to get from  place to place cause everything is so far out and expanded.
But yeah, that's what I use.
And sometimes my sister will take me and sometimes  you take me.
My boyfriend will take me.
So,  you.
For breakfast, we did  a dinner thing.
We had like, um,  bowties- linguine bowties with, um,    tomato sauce, but we cut the peppers up and everything in there  and added some spices and some butter.
And then we also had corn on the cob and black beans  with some onions and peppers and yeah as well as some spices.
So it tasted really good.
It filled me up.
No, I'm- well I'm a vegetarian.
Vegetarian, not vegan.
Vegans don't really eat like,  um, they don't drink milk.
They don't do anything with dairy, and a lot- anything that came from or started with an animal  is no longer ate by a vegan, but I still of-  occasionally do fish.
Um, I just stay away from meat  period.
Like chicken, you know, steak, hamburgers, those type of stuff.
I stay away from those.
And I just, um, try to eat healthy and keep my body balanced.
Um, I started being a vegetarian when I was in New York City, and I think it was because I was getting more aware of  things that were happening with the animals.
That's what first prompted it,  um, just,  you know, machines that they stick down their throats so they could eat, and  give them their vitamins, and  all the estrogen that goes into animals and sometimes too much testosterone.
And I believe whatever a animal eats, we consume as well.
Cause then they're killing them for us to eat them, which is,  you know, the way God created it, but at the same time  it's like  they just put in way too much into the animal.
They're not getting it from the earth anymore.
It's- it's like mass produced and nasty, so that's what kind of prompt me to do it.
And then I was never really was like a meat lover anyways.
So, it wasn't hard for me to like transition from    basically  just eating,  you know, maybe hamburger once in a while to not having any meat at all.
I'm a fish person, so.
Your skin is much clearer.
Um,  your skin's much clearer, you feel- you get more energy.
Uh, you just feel lighter, and like it's-  it's k-  Okay, what can I equate it to is like  when I do a mask on my face  and it's just cleaning out all my pores and everything.
And I'm- my face doesn't feel cloggy anymore.
It's kind of like that, like you don't feel stuffed.
Your stomach's not all protruding  You feel light and heavy, and you could have more meals a day,  than feeling like,  I don't know,  like Santa Claus, I guess.
If- it just- it just did so much better for my skin, and I don't feel as sick as I used to from whatever was in my body.
Um, let's see,  I can't wait for Game of Thrones to come back out.
I love Game of Thrones.
I cannot even  remember what happened in the last season.
Have to  redo it.
But I like that.
I like Blackish.
Um, what's another show?
Oh, Star, that new one from Lee Daniels, that's really good.
Uh, I watch Power.
Um,    I watch  reality TV,  I like Vanderpump Rules.
Uh, what else?
Love and Hip Hop,  sometimes I watch that.
Not too much into this season.
And, what's another show I really really really- I like movies a lot though.
Let me see, what's another show that I watch all the time?
I can't remember.
I know that I watch-  oh, I watch, um, the Kardashians.
I think  I- okay, I can only talk  for myself, but I'm obsessed with all things hair and like eyebrows and stuff like that.
And so I've- was watching them since season one, they came a long way.
And   I just like seeing them as a family getting that money together.
That motivated me and, um,    just the way they look.
I think it's a thing about looks because  with girls, like,  I know when I was little, I had thousands of Barbie dolls.
But  to you, they mighta all looked the same, and to me they didn't look the same.
So I think that's  our obsession with like the Kardashians like,  they- yeah, people might think like they're fake or whatever.
But, you know,   they just look different.
They look like dolls, like you watching dolls on TV.
Hm.
They cute, yeah.
I just like watching it, I know  it might be- not be, all the way  true or whatever.
I don't really know, but I like watching it.
Mm-hm, and then I also watched the Mariah Carey one that's on there, got me to s-  see her in a different light.
Um,  some lights I don't like, but  she's uh,  I- she's interesting.
I like  watching people on TV.
I like to see interviews too, like on OWN, on A- Oprah.
Like when she's interviewing like people like John Legend, Will Smith,  you kind of get wisdom from these type of people.
So that's my channel I go to when I really wanna  learn somebody's background and  why people think the way they do, and  everybody's different, so  it's good to-    like if there's a person you don't like, like  okay like,  I wouldn't say I don't like her, but- cause I don't know her, but like  Miley Cyrus,  like the interview for me.
I don't think she interviewed her, but if she interviews her,  I would get to see like, why  she does certain things.
You know,  what makes her tick  as Miley Cyrus, cause  some things she does I might not agree with, and some things I do,  she might not agree with, but that's what makes us- us different, so  I like the OWN channel.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
I think that's the biggest-  that's the biggest, um,    that's the b-  t- what's the word I'm looking for?
That's the place where you learn  how to do everything and how the world's gonna treat you.
And, um, sometimes if you come from  a dangerous background, you so used to seeing everybody  like being violent with one another, you think that's the way it sup-  that everybody's household is.
You know, cause you don't have that  perspective.
You don't have that person telling you like, oh no,  it's different other places, and  it's not like that or  whatever.
But  I know, I grew up with just like my mom.
And I always lived with- um,    we always shared like a home.
In New York City, you could have like three family homes.
So it would be like, me and my mom and then my aunt  and her daughter and two sons  and her husband.
So it's like I always had  family members there, but not really.
Like, I still know I was the only child,  but I call them my brothers and sisters.
But  I don't know.
I think I had more of a- of a different upbringing than say like somebody who was actually a only child,  and they didn't have like siblings around.
Like  I had  the best of both worlds.
Like  if I wanted to se- be by myself I could be by myself.
If I wanted to be around kids, I could be around kids.
And it just showed me that, um, I could be multifaceted and be  friends and still be comfortable and not always have somebody on my side.
So  I don't know and then my family's weird, so.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Traditions.
Oh, sitting down for Thanksgiving  dinner, we'd say  what we were thankful for every year and how it was gonna improve for the next year.
Um, what else?
Food is a big traditions in our house.
So like we have macaroni pie.
We have like the corn pie, we always have, um, oxtail.
Um, food brings us together.
That's what I noticed with our family, like,  food and parties.
So that's mostly our traditions.
We don't really do nothing major l- oh, and like,  my birthday is a tradition.
I just like going to the movies and to eat.
Yeah, it's nothing like too extravagant until I get to travel, but I don't really do the whole birthdays thing, maybe one year but not-  not anytime soon.
Definitely!
But I want us to be closer.
I want us to talk about like our day, and I want us to have like a positive word jar  where like we put- write something positive,   um, everyday and then you put it in a jar, and then every Sunday we'll pull one out and read it.
And, um, I wanna do something like that.
I wanna start funds, like saving funds for my kids, so I can help them, you know, early on- start it early on, so I can help them later on in life.
And what else?
What else?
I definitely wanna have like  a cooking thing like once a month, where we can invite our friends, and they can eat with us.
So we not all    into each other,  you know, bring other people into our world.
And just teach our kids to be  loving towards one another as brother and sister.
Cause me and my  t- s- um,  god sister and my  god brother, my cousins, whatever you wanna call them.
We're kinda harsh towards one another, but I think that's a New York thing.
But  I'm gonna teach them to be a little softer and nicer with each other.
Um, when I was younger, I was living in RD-ADDRESS-2.
Um, that's part of Brooklyn.
Um,  RD-ADDRESS-2 do or die.
Home of Biggie Smalls and Jay Z, down a couple blocks in RD-ADDRESS-2 projects.
And it was really bad around that time, so even though my grandmother had a home,  um, my mom and  her sisters didn't really grow with their mom, so make- to make the long story short, we ended up leaving,  and we got our own spot in RD-ADDRESS-3.
I think we moved to-  no RD-ADDRESS-3, yeah we moved to RD-ADDRESS-3.
That's in Brooklyn too.
And I grew up in that  area, for like  ten to  twelve years, probably longer, can't really remember.
But um,  it's different  seeing as everything is around the corner, like if I come out the house, I don't gotta stay in the house all day.
I go outside,  the corner store is there.
You got your shop- your shoes stores.
You got your Duane Reade's, your Rite Aid's,  um, your CVS's.
It's just totally different, like  everybody's always outside playing on the block.
Um,    It's just nice.
It's just different.
It's just a different feeling like,  everything is right where you need it, whereas out here,  um,  you come outside, all you see is your neighbors, all you gonna see is your neighbors.
And if you come out the area, all you gonna see is the woods, unless you downtown or whatever.
And, um, There's no corner stores.
Y'all have QT's.
Um, you need your car  to go past the outside of your- your area, whatever that might be.
And, yeah, everybody down here is about their home.
They not really more so about fashion.
Up there we about fashion.
Like  cause you walking all the time, you gotta look fresh, you have to have your fresh sneaker on, your fresh outfit on.
If you're a girl, your hair have to be done, your nails gotta be done.
And you not gonna be get caught dead going in certain stores.
I see people  who going in and out here,  like it's nothing.
So yeah, we more about our clothes.
Y'all more about like homes and stuff.
Safer?
Mm,  I guess, um,  I feel a little bit safer in New York.
I think that's cause I grew up there though.
Like down here it was something I seen on TV.
And I feel like the houses are nice, but they kind of just right there and anybody could just come into your joint.
Whereas up there, like, everybody's connected.
The houses are connected.
So it's like,  they're not w-  they not gonna try you  like how they try people out here, like  just going in they houses taking TV's and shit.
Cause we just so close knitted up there.
Even if we didn't want to be, that's just the way that it's built.
So,  yeah.
I think it's the same.
Well, f-  no, yeah it's crowded.
It's crowded but it doesn't- after fi- I feel like it's the same thing on a block  radius type thing.
It's the same amount of people.
It's just that  your neighbors are much closer.
Like okay,  you step outside on your porch, they porch is right there.
Like  there's a  gate dividing your porch and their porch.
But when you come out and they stand there, you're gonna say, hey.
Versus out here, we have to wave across the street or wave next door.
There's space in between your houses, so I don't know.
I don't-  I don't think it's more crowded.
I think it's the same amount of people  actually.
It's just that everybody  kind of is on the go in they own cars and stuff out here, so you not really gonna  bump into that many people unless you take the a-  the MARTA.
Mm-hm.
Oh no, my school was always in the vicinity.
Um, when I was in junior high, my school was across the street.
All I d- I literally- all I had to do was cross the street and go to school.
I think my mom and my aunt did that on purpose.
And then when I got to high school,  um, I just had to walk up,  let me see,  like five blocks.
And then we moved to another place so I was walking,  um, just ten blocks.
But it was in the same type of  zone area, like you had to go to your zone school.
Um, I think in high school you could go to other schools, but you had to have like a problem or your parents just wanted you to go to an elite school or something like that.
But  we have zone schools just like out here.
Um,   they were always in the area.
Only one time,  I think up from kindergarten to third grade  I was  in, um, RD-SCHOOL-7,  and that was  over on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street  out of my neighborhood.
But that was because I was in a Catholic school, and then she decided to change my school.
And that's when I moved over to the RD-ADDRESS-3 school-  public school  because she felt what th-  I wasn't learning anything at the Catholic school.
They was just taking the money.
I didn't like school.
I think my whole experience in school-  I really loved, um, kindergarten cause we-   we didn't do anything.
We took naps, um, colored.
And some people don't remember like kindergarten, but I remember it because I had  a special needs teacher.
She was a helper for my- my teacher was Indian.
She looked like Pocahontas.
That's all I can remember.
And the  special needs teacher, she was a little person.
And her name was Miss RD-NAME-1.
She was so nice.
She was like the height of probably my knee, and I'm just five- five feet-  five feet.
She was up to like my thigh.
She was tiny.
She was so nice.
She used to bring me candy all the time, so I really love  kindergarten, and rest in peace Miss RD-NAME-1.
And then, let's see, I really loved, um, I think that was fifth grade,  no sixth grade.
I met this guy, he was my teacher.
His name was Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
Really on the hefty side, rest in peace Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
But he really, um, motivated us to be good people.
It wasn't just about singing with him.
It was more about like, um,  you know, f- getting to know you and love yourself as a person, so he motivated me.
I really liked that class.
That was a music class.
And that made me have a love for music.
And then,  let's see,  I don't think I had any favorites in high school.
Oh.
Mr.
RD-NAME-3 in RD-SCHOOL-2 two eleven.
Couldn't stand his ass.
Oh, my bad.
My mom, um, she had to go up there and speak to him because he wouldn't let me sit in the front of the class.
My glasses, I didn't have my glasses.
I wear glasses to see the board.
I would tell him everyday, I can't see.
And then he'll be mad that I didn't turn in my work and stuff like that.
Well it's like, I can't see.
And then he told me he was not gonna put me in the front of the class.
So she came up there and gave him a little  one two  type of mama cursing type thing,  and then I was in the front of the class the next day.
um, Mrs.
RD-NAME-3.
I think that was her name.
She was a ra- that was the first time I had to deal with racism  in NYC.
But she basically used to pick on certain people and tell us,  like,  oh you're doing this, and I'm'a tell your parents you're doing this, and you weren't doing it.
And I remember one time she told  my mom I was in the class jumping on the desk, throwing  my erase- the erasers at her, or something like that.
And Mr.
RD-NAME-1 had to come and help me out  and kind of  tell my mom she needed to get me out that class, cause  she just don't like certain people.
When she got her mind on you,  she ain't gonna like you.
So those are two people I had  an  awful experience with in school.
But school just- it wasn't my thing.
I wanted to  get out and do what I wanted to do, but the crazy thing was  I didn't know  what exactly I wanted to do, so.
I was just always all over the place.
English.
I could write a essay like nobody's business.
I used to  help people write their essays cause I was really good at it.
It was just common sense to me.
Um,  social studies, and then there was another class we used to take,  and it taught us how to predict the weather.
I can't remember the name of that class, but it was really fun.
The teacher was really good.
I can't remember his name though.
That was a really good class.
What'd they call that?
When you- with the weather?
Something like that, yeah I really liked that.
And then I took drama class in college.
That was fun and weird at the same time.
I think I wasn't ready for at that point, because I didn't know that like, in acting class you have to act like a- like get on all fours and act like a cat and do all type of stuff.
And I just- I was too concerned about how I was looking than to be focused on my craft.
So that didn't last long.
In high school, no.
I tried out for the track team, but I had some issues with  pain  in my leg and stuff.
I guess that  is genetics, I don't know.
And then, um,  I wasn't really into like,  cheerleading because,  I'm- I feel like I'm a leader, and  the stuff that they were doing to the,  people who were auditioning, like it was some type of sorority.
I was just not gonna pass that test like, so I kind of just stayed to myself.
I didn't really do anything extracurricular in school.
Didn't wanna do it,  even when I was younger and I would say, oh I wanna do tap dancing.
And my mom would take me to tap dance class, and then when I realized she couldn't stay with me, I would cry.
And then  I just went home.
So I just never was interested in anything.
I'm a really clinger.
I cling to my mom.
And, um,  I cling to anything that's-  that I feel comfortable with, so whether that be  my mom, my sister, somebody close.
And if they're not with me, I have a issue, so    yeah.
I don't wanna adapt y'all flavor and swag.
I don't have- I don't know how to pick up y'all dialect.
Like I don't really hang out with Atlanta people  like that.
Not- it's no offense to any person that's from Atlanta, but I just haven't come across like somebody that I could relate to and understand why,  you know, Atlanta women act the way they do.
And so the few I have met, I just- I don't mess with them like that, cause  I don't know.
It's clashing.
Like they views and my views.
So, um, No, because  I don't know, like, I'm picky with my friends in general  in New York City, so, um, when I came out here, I met one girl.
She was from  New York,  and she lived out here for like over ten years or something like that.
But to me, she was more into like the guys with the cars, and  if they ain't go no money, they ain't gotta talk to her.
And like things like that, and I'm just- I'm not saying there's not girls like that in New York, cause they are.
And I didn't hang out with them there either.
So it just depends on, for me, energy and where your, um, opinions,  lie, like I'm not gonna not be your friend because  you want a guy with money or whatever.
But  if that's all you're concerned about and I see you not working for so- for something for yourself, that's how I choose my friends.
And  I think that's the difference between  me, a New York person, and them, a ATL person.
I just haven't found that right Atlanta person that, you know, I wanna hang out with, besides you.
And I can't lose this accent if d- I feel like I was there my whole life.
I came out here and wi- in my-  when I was like twenty-eight or something like that.
So my accent is stuck.
It's not going nowhere.
I'm not tryna pick up no other accent, unless I go to London or something like that.
Bruh?
I think bruh came from Atlanta.
Bruh came from Atlanta, um, um, what else do y'all say?
Finna.
I'm f- I'm finna go to- I'm finna go to the store.
Y'all say skreet.
Y'all say Merry Chritmas.
When I used to come out here on vacation, I used to hear a lot more.
Like, it had more- a lot of that- like ATLiens walking around like, ayo, shorty, shorty,  can I- shorty, can I s- see you for a minute or whatever, like Oh, lemme ho- lemme holler at you for a second, shorty.
Some shit like that.
Um,  I only remember that one time when my friends was following, um,  what's his name?
Master P's son?
Yeah, they was following him.
And, um, I felt like that was weird.
That's a lot of stuff people do out here that's weird too.
So they following him, following him in these stores in Lenox mall.
And I know he saw them following him.
So when they finally caught up to him, I just went up the escalator.
You know, yeah, cause I just-  I wasn't interested in even meeting him, like, so  he kind of was looking up and laughing and waving.
You know, instead of paying attention to them and  taking a picture.
Oh and I also met Shaq, but he's not from out here,  so.
Yeah, I met Shaq.
He told me he liked my lipstick.
It was good, asked me what I'm doing later.
That day, I was actually  going to my interview, and I was at a job   at RD-WORK-3, so.
And let's see, what's it-  um, when I used to work at RD-WORK-2,  Birthday Bash, all of them, like,  you know, Lenox mall was like the spot I guess.
That's where they have like the little concert or whatever, cause I don't know about it.
And, um, a lot of guys would walk through and be like, oh what's happening, shawty?
Can I talk to you for a second, put my phone-  I'm like, nah, like  I ain't taking no bus to come meet you.
I'm not getting on no train.
You better have a car, like  first of all, I don't even wanna get in your car, like I don't even know you like that.
I don't even know how I hooked up with you.
Cause I was just afraid at th- it's too much,  like woods, trees, like places to bury people out here, like.
No, no.
I had to pray on it.
Yeah you do ha- you had good energy.
Atlanta music.
I like listening to your beats.
Um,  Mainstream,  I don't think I listen to anybody from Atlanta.
You c- I listen to Young Thug sometimes if he on the radio, and it depends on if the song was playing so much on the radio  that it is now part of my subconscious.
So I put it on my iTunes.
I like T.I.
I don't listen to him everyday though.
I listen to this guy named Black.
Um- It's like a six L A C K.
He's really good.
I like, um, this girl called H.E.R.
Hers is H dot E dot R.
And, who else is my favorite?
Oh, Chrisette Michele.
I just downloaded  her last album.
It's really different from her other ones.
I listen to a lot of different stuff, um, Yeah, when it's on the radio, but I didn't download it.
Yeah I can't- I don't know.
And then you gotta remember like  thirty, thirty-four.
Like if I really wanna play it with my, you know, my boyfriend or my friends or whatever, in the car then I'll probably put something on and do a little dance, but it's not part of my playlist.
Like I have ver- I don't just- don't-  I don't listen- I don't keep people's names.
Um, Daniel Caesar, he's really good.
Maybe he's from Atlanta, I don't know.
I listen to Drake, Rihanna.
Um, Beyonce, when she drops anything, I kill it so then I can't listen to it anymore.
Um, Mariah Carey.
I still listen to Naughty by Nature, Queen Latifah, Brandy, Tupac, Biggie Smalls, Jay-Z, those type of people.
I didn't really pick up anybody from  Atlanta yet.
I used to listen to Jermaine Dupri when he was like hot back then.
And then, who else?
I like Missy Elliot.
I could always listen to all her songs.
Yeah.