RD-NAME-5 I'm black.
Nineteen-ninety three.
Brooklyn New York.
Um,  like eight and some months now.
Just Brooklyn  and here.
Um, high school.
Um, I'm a school teacher.
Um, they was born in Saint Vincent.
Um, my mom used to be a school teacher,  and then when she came to the States,  she, um,  became a RN.
And my dad,  um,  he did- he played soccer and he- um,  is it a seamstress when you're a guy?
Well he-  he, um, was a seamstress and then when he came to the States, he did like, um, custodial work.
Mm-hm.
I went out.
To a all white party.
No.
A all white like  your clothes.
All white clothes.
It was all white birthday party.
Of course.
Somebody gonna wanna me different.
Oh, I'm'a wear black because just because.
Um, I mean it's different things.
I mean it depends on  what type of all white party you go to.
You go to American- an American all white party  might be different type of music.
People might act different.
Then if you go to uh- like a Caribbean type, which I went to.
Um,  get like a different reaction because like, you know it's different music and stuff like that, so.
Mm.
Um,    When I first came out here obviously there wasn't like- things weren't that close.
It was stressful because I had to get  a ride to go everywhere.
Um, also when I went to school,  like with teachers with different accents, like that come from, um, different countries like, the West Indies and you know like other places.
The kids would make fun of them.
And that would kind of get to me a little bit.
I don't know if it's because um,  you know my parents are from a different  country, or if it's because you know, it's something that I'm used to because being in New York, every- it's everything is diverse, so you know.
Nobody's different from  anybody else, you know.
Um,  I wouldn't say we a crew like,  we're cool, like I have- Friends.
Mm-hm.
Uh, on a typical weekend, probably go out.
to a party, or to  a club, or  to a lounge, or go bowling.
Or something, or studio.
Mm-hm.
I can bowl a little bit.
And I can sing a little bit, but I'm shy.
So I won't do no singing in this studio.
No.
I went to high school out here.
Yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um,  I didn't like it at first because I didn't know anybody and I didn't wanna be here.
But, uh,  After awhile it was cool.
They had, um, like a lot of  different, um, clubs you could join.
And different activities and stuff at school.
Like,  I was in choir there.
And I used to, um, stay after school and do like some choir practice and stuff like that.
And we would have like recitals and stuff.
But- Mm.
Um,  I think science.
I like science.
I like science.
I like science.
I think I started liking science when I was in, um, junior high school because I had a teacher that he really used to push me a lot.
And like I was making good grades.
I was like, you know what?
I l- I kind of like this.
I'm making good grades.
And you know, you can learn a lot with science.
E- basically everything you do  e- equal up with some science.
Yeah.
Math.
Mm-hm.
It's hard.
Like you feel like you getting something.
You writing all this- everything down.
And you feel like you getting somewhere and then it ends up being wrong.
Especially algebra.
Oh my god.
don't get me started.
From school here, or school in New York?
I mean I could walk, but I'd be dead by the time I get there .
But  I mean driving it's like five minutes.
Walking it's like twenty.
Yeah,  or sometimes I'd get a ride.
Mm-hm.
Fights?
I didn't get in a lot of fights, um,  out here.
When I was in New York I got into maybe two?
I'm not like a bad kid.
So I didn't really get into a lot of fights.
I mean a lot of people don't like me, but- They would never do nothing, so.
Um,  I- Not in high school.
I mean I know when I was in New York when I use to g- when I was in junior high,  I would leave my house extra early to go to the park in the morning time.
To swing on the swings.
As old as I was in junior high, I could still  fit on the swings  early before class in the morning.
I don't know how to double dutch.
I know how to hopscotch.
And jump regular rope, but I could never catch, um, double dutch.
My first job.
It was at a lotto machine.
It was for the summer.
It was at a nursing home at, um, RD-WORK-3 and I was at a lotto machine.
And then when I came to, um,  Georgia,  it was at a daycare.
And I was at the front desk.
So the lotto machine was in New York.
And I was like fifteen.
It was just like a summer thing.
Yeah.
Dealing with people and dealing with,  you know,  different attitudes.
Cause you know, a lot of people come in here, they got attitudes about they lotto,  so.
Yeah.
I'm the youngest.
Um,  yeah.
Um,  I'm more close with my mom's side.
My dad's side- I mean, I have some that live in New York, and then some that live in Saint Vincent.
But I only went there one time, and I don't really-  I mean I talk to them every now and again, but I don't see 'em.
So I'm more close with my mom's side of  family.
Mm-hm.
Uh, I can remember,  I had a lot of birthday parties.
And we had a lot of, um,  parties too, like in the summer time, we used to have like a big barbecue.
And that's my favorite time like,  it was so much fun, like,  I don't know, everybody you see for-  that you didn't see for a while come around.
And it would just be like- you know, old times.
It would be fun.
Mm.
Of course.
I-   I like-  I like to go out and I like to have fun and I like, um, my culture so  of course I'm gonna keep that  in my family.
I want my kids to know about  their culture a lot.
And our culture a lot.
Mm.
No like Caribbean like, I'm from New York, but I consider myself like, where my mom is from.
And like,  because, I love that type of music.
I love the whole  carnival experience.
The whole- you know, everything about it, it's it's beautiful, so.
Um,  all of them.
I mean I been playin-  I've been playing, um,  it's called mass.
It's like when you get like your costume and you dress up.
And you in a parade.
Since I was little, I was playing, so.
I think all of them.
Even if I don't get a costume, I'm still on the parkway, I'm still going to the carnival.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
When I went to Saint Vincent for the first time I played.
Mm-hm.
Oh, and in Canada.
Twice.
Mm-hm.
They're very expensive.
Um, for a front line costume, you're paying almost five hundred dollars.
Um,  for a mid line, three.
Back line,  the least is like two fifty.
Oh like, e-  Yeah.
And if you're playing like, um,  like a queen, like a king or- of the band it's like almost a thousand.
So, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I mean, they don't have the extravagant feathers and stuff like that, like- If- if it's a- if it's the king.
Yeah if it's a k- if it's a king, then you have like, uh, you have basically like a train on you.
That  the costume almost has like, wheels.
So it be easy for you to maneuver in it, but if you're playing like a regular you know like, regular costume,  you're not gonna really know, like-  You- you might see a guy,  but you're not gonna notice what he has on because it's only  almost- The guys are just  shirtless with shorts and like um, some kind of jewelry around the neck, or something like that and a headband.
It's nothing to extravagant when you're just playing with the band, like.
But when it's like, the king, or queen, it's- you'll notice.
They'll stand out because it's huge.
Not lately.
Like maybe,  couple weeks ago.
I mean, I really don't know.
I can't speak on something I don't know because  we weren't there when  you know, he approached these females, or whatever the case may be.
So I really don't know.
And  I can't speak on it, cause I don't know I still listen to his music.
Mm-hm.
I'm  bumping Usher all the way.
To where I need to go.
Because I know he got a- a situation too going on right now.
But that doesn't affect how I listen to his music.
If he make good music, he make good music.
His actions don't have nothing to do with me listening to what  he was singing about,  so.
No, I was sleep.
I was-  I was sleep.
I mean it got dark outside, thought it was about to rain, but- but- huh?
Yeah it got dark.
And I just thought it was about to rain.
I didn't-  I didn't remember- So.
I was sleep.
It's, um, soca or calypso.
or reggae.
Mm.
I like R and B.
And I like hip hop.
And I like pop.
Mm-hm.
Um, I like SZA.
I like Sevyn Streeter,  I like Chris Brown, I like Trey Songz.
I like Kodak Black.
I like Cardi B.
Uh, who else?
I like YT.
Uh-   who else?
Um, Wale he sucks .
Kanye.
Uh, who else?
I listen to so much  music.
I like, um,    what's the boy name?
He's it right now.
I forgot his name though.
Um, Moneybagg Yo.
Um, who else?
I like everybody.
I mean I think if somebody- huh?
I love Davito.
I like African music too.
I forgot to say that.
I love African music.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like- I like a lot of, um,  different types of music and a lot of different type of-  types of artists.
I feel like  when some people look at my playlist, or hear like different things, when I'm driving around with them,  they're like, oh you listen to this?
Like they wouldn't think I would listen to it.
Like, I like-  I love music basically.
Mm-hm.
Know what, I think,  um,  since I'm older now,  I haven't really even been watching TV like that.
Honestly.
I can't tell.
I could say  when I come in the house, my TV's on the same channel  for about three, four days.
But when I do watch TV, I watch, um, Power.
A lot of stuff be on record too, so.
I watch Power, Insecure.
Um, I like musicals.
So if there's a musical movie on, I'm watching that.
Riverdale.
I don't even like Love And Hip Hop like that no more, that's crazy.
Um, I like scary movies.
So if there's a scary movie on, or a scary show, I'm watching it.
Like True Blood, that used to be my show.
But it doesn't come on anymore.
Um, Yeah, Scream is good.
It was cheesy at first, but I like it.
Um, what else.
I like some shows on Netflix, like Dear Black People- I mean, Dear White People.
Pretty Little Liars.
Mm-hm.
It's a show,  it's a series.
Mm-hm.
I'm ready for the one tomorrow.
I'm ready for the season finale.
And these-  Yes.
.
You gonna spoil it for yourself.
I like anything that looks nice.
I mean, I'm not  a label.
Junkie- yeah.
Like,  if I can afford it and it looks nice,  I'm getting it.
Mm-hm.
Um, the most I pay is probably like  thirty, forty dollars.
Shoes,  if it's a really good pair of shoes,  you probably spending like a hundred and some change.
But like if it's like- I'm not gonna go extravagant, like get red bottoms, or something.
If it's just  not my birthday or something.
Like If it's my birthday then okay honestly I could spend like that eight-hundred or that nine-hundred for some red bottoms or something.
But I mean like I said, if it's cute, and it's twenty dollars,  I'm'a get it.
Um,  hopefully I have my RN, or my CNA by then.
And, um,  working probably  as a traveling nurse.
And, um,  probably started my career in,  opening a senior living home.
I wanna open a senior living home.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
I don't know.
I mean the money's gonna be good too, but, um,  I've been working where old-  with older people for a while.
And, um,  it's crazy because like, family members,  they tend to forget about their-  Your mom, or dad, or aunts, uncles.
And at the end of the day,  their family becomes us, the workers.
So  I just  always have like a soft spot  for them.
And they're sweet.
Like- I mean they  at- at some point in life, that's gonna be me,  you know.
So I would want somebody to care about me.
And remember me and take care of me.
If I need it, you know?
No.
Have I?
Of course I use lotion.
Um, It's a big t- tub of, um,  coconu- I mean co-  What?
Cocoa butter.
And you can get it from Sally's, or the dollar store, or Walmart.
Mm-hm.
And sometimes I mix like, oil with it.
Like if I have tea tree oil or something,  I'll  put the lotion in my hand, and then I'll put the oil and rub it together cause I'm dark skinned.
So I gotta keep smooth.
Or sometimes raw coconut oil.
Mm-hm.
I think-  Ah wow.
Maybe like, two, three years now.
Yeah.
No?
Oh, only one?
It seems like forever.
So.
Um, I notice like they're building a lot of-  they're building a lot of, um,  apartments.
Like they're building a lot of places up.
Like, I know downtown Brooklyn they're building a lot of lofts and  um, condos and stuff.
They're building that up.
Especially since the stadium is out there, they want it to  fit the image I guess.
So.
And like, on my old block,  turn into a party, and like, when you go outside  it's music playing.
It's a whole bunch of different restaurants now, um,  a big Family Dollar.
So.
Um, s- They s- sometimes they hear it.
They say they sometimes hear it, but not all the time.
And that's maybe because I keep in contact with them too, so.
And then some of my friends out here, they're from New York too, so.
Um, oh sorry.
They say, um, it's lit.
They say sis.
They say, um,  she's dragging, you dragging, like, that means like, That mean like, okay like, say you're doing something and it's getting on my nerves.
I be like, you dragging like,  you doing too much, basically.
Um,  what else, Yeah, it's about to be a movie.
Um,  what else  some other stuff, but I can't think of it.
It comes more out like when you talk,  I guess.
Nobody says that anymore.
Right.
They say that in Compton too though, so.
They say bruh.
Bruh, when I first came out here bruh.
Suh.
Uh, what else.
Sis.
Like chill sis.
Like you doing too much sis.
Relax sis.
Now they starting- You know what now they starting to say bruh.
Like my best friend, I be hearing her say it, but she won't say it like bruh.
But she be like bruh, or bro.
You know.
Suh.
You got, um,  I don't really know.
I didn't- I didn't-  It- w- Like I say I coulda helped  you out with this more when- if I was in high school.
Because now- I don't really have that much people that are from like  out here.
That I hang out with.
Okay.
And if they are, they adapting to how  we talk.
How New Yorkers talk, or you know,  how other-  you know, other places talk.
Guys.
It's a little bit of both.
Um,  sometimes they be rude like, the other day,  I was at the store, and I'm paying for my dress.
This boy come up to me and I'm using my card.
I'm thinking he about to scam me, so  I'm like- I'm like, what is going on?
He like, hey put your-  put your number in my phone.
And I'm like what?
No hi?
No, you're pretty?
Or how you doing?
Aye, put my number in your phone.
So we could call- so I could call you after this.
No.
I'm good.
Or they be like what you finna do?
If I'm at the gas station, aye what you finna do?
Get gas?
What do you mean?
Right.
Not really.
No.
No, that is a big deal.
Don't call me no ma'am.
don't call me no ma'am.
Yeah.
I went to White Waters a lot too.
Mm-hm.
No.
I just walked around.
I've been there all summer.
Yeah I'm going to that.
Yeah.
And I'm going drunk too.