Man, cause that's a extra bill, man.
It's a extra bill, man.
I don't need it right now, man.
I don't need no kids.
I mean, I ain't even ready to get married yet, so why would I bring a kid into this world?
I mean, I grew up without my dad, and I finally moved to Georgia with my dad, but  man, he was there  like salt and pepper every now and then.
But I don't wanna be that type of dad.
I wanna be able to fully develop some time into my kids.
And,  you know, not saying I'm running from the responsibility, but like I said, I just know  it's growth right now.
I'm still growing in myself,  still learning who I am, hence the name I am, you know what I'm saying, so.
That's where I'm at with it.
Um,  nah, not really.
I tried dumbing it down, but I just can't do it.
It's like you- you learn so much and you b- you wanna spit it out, and that's how I am, man.
That dumbing it down and  n- tryna sound dumb on interviews and- and stuff.
It's like, I'm just gonna speak my mind.
I don't think I'm the smartest.
I ain't the dumbest.
I just speak what come to my mind, what I feel like is real.
I mean, it's- that's really what it is, from the music to just being a person.
Anybody who around me, man, know  I'm pretty much real.
I a-  I- I respect feelings, but I'm a realist at the end of the day.
Like I'm'a give you the realest a- best  answer I know to give you  on anything.
All the scenari- whatever it might be, I'm'a- I'm'a try to keep it real with you as-  as one thousand as possible.
I mean, I fuck with my family.
But they know I'm on a mission right now, so I block a lot of stuff out.
You know what I'm saying, you know I love 'em, but like I said, I gotta block stuff out to focus on me.
I can't let they feelings be my feelings.
I can't let what they go through determine my actions.
You know, sometime they just gotta go through it, and you just gotta deal with the consequences as they come, you know.
Something happened then  that's just something I gotta live with, you know.
God be  on that happened to my family, you know what I'm saying, but  at the same time,  they know I'm on a mission  not just for me but for them as well, so.
Um,  I don't really think it's a thing that's too focused when you ain't achieved your goal yet.
Yeah, so, mm, it's like  taking a vacation,  and you ain't- you ain't earned it.
It's like getting a raise and you ain't earn- it's like you gotta put in the work.
You can't go to boot camp  in the army and say, I miss my family, and I wanna go back home right quick.
Nah, you there.
And that's just- that's just what it is.
Oh yeah, of course, man.
You know that.
Sh, man,  anything from Kelz Kitchen.
But, you know, when I'm chilling at the house and I'm cooking, Ro-Tel dip.
Uh,  lasagna, you know, something of that sort.
You know, I like cooking too.
Man,  I'm a foodetarian.
Man, they know better.
Folk don't come to me on that BS, man.
They just read the personality, man.
Folk come to me with respect, man.
So it ain't even got nothing to do with it.
Yeah.
Uh, I got some stuff on the way, man.
Got a new single I been- I mean, it's kind of obvious what it's gonna be called.
I put it in every photo.
The Sign, so.
You know what I'm saying, and I got a- I got a- I got a album on the way.
So I-  my focus was not really tryna put so much attention on  to dropping something this year.
It was really just focusing on it and getting it where I could drop it the right way  with the right marketing behind it, man.
I- I'm'a- I'm'a always be relevant long as I walk around with that sign.
Like, I mean, I- that's just real Man, everywhere I go, man, it's like everybody like- I could try to talk to people and give them compliments, and then somehow it always revert back to, man, you- your grinding the sign you inspire me.
So  I li- I like the fact that people tell me I inspire them, man.
I mean, it's just- I'm just speaking facts, man.
A lot of artists be telling me, bruh, you the only artist  that I really feel like is  the competition when I be really feeling like, you ain't my competition.
Not- no disrespect to no artists or nothing, but it just the competition is so much bigger than  ATL, so much bigger than the South.
We competing against  people across the world.
So, you know, I dig them for them to say that I'm their competition, or that I'm somebody they feel like they,  you know, one and two or two and one, however that may be the one two punch, you know what I'm saying.
But I get that from a lot of artists, but yeah, you ain't not finna get that from me because they not my competition, man i- Nah, I- I'm looking at the person like in the mirror.
Man, Drake- I mean,  e- Drake ain't no bigger than  me, or Drake ain't no bigger than nobody else.
He just had his opportunity before we did.
You know what I'm saying, he just had his opportunity come, and that's it, you know what I'm saying.
I'm'a have my opportunity when it come, I'm'a be-  probably go longer than Drake as far as number one hits cause I got 'em.
And then I still ain't even reached-  I still ain't even learnt myself fully.
I haven't been able to be in the studio  twenty-four hours back to back to back, you know what I'm saying, I- I can only go to the studio when I can afford to go, you know what I'm saying.
And that's cool.
I can knock out five, six songs in about a four, five hour session.
But  to learn yourself to just be in there and just learn yourself, man, that's a whole different- whole different feeling, man, you know what I'm saying.
I don't think nobody touching me right now.
I don't think nobody gonna be touching me then.
You know, I'm already a dangerous guy.
So when I really get  that-  a team that work just as hard as me all across the board,  it's gonna be even more dangerous.
Um,  I mean, first of all, I just wanna see the people support it.
All the people who say- talk to me out in the streets, I just wanna see them support.
That's the biggest market, word of mouth through the people, you know what I'm saying.
I'm not gonna really release all my m-  my strategies that we got planned up cause we still cooking 'em up.
But, you know, just to have people  themselves talking about what I got going on telling somebody else about it .
That's the best marketing because  I only know about music when my friends tell me about it.
And it's like, okay, I gotta listen to it now cause you told me about it.
I know you don't listen to that BS music.
So word of mouth, just people rocking with the sign, man.
Oh yeah, that nigga, he's- man, look, that boy, he- that boy's a beast, man.
I g- I give credit when credit due.
Like he really talking about something.
So I'm'a always support.
It's his time, man.
It was just his time, man.
It's his time, man.
Everybody have they time, man.
Timing is everything.
That why- that's why people, um, preach patience so much cause  you gonna have your time.
You just gotta be ready.
And it's almost like  when you- when you- when it's really your time, you gotta- y- you gonna be scared a little bit cause it's a lot that come with that, you know what I'm saying.
I had a studio session one time.
I was scared to go home.
The music was so fire I thought somebody was gonna take me off on the way home.
Nah, it's real- it's some real shit though.
I was like, man, this music too good.
Let me go ahead and hide.
I know.
I'm definitely out there.
I- I went to two spots last night, s- walked in with the sign.
Man, look, I'm not dimming my light for nobody twenty eighteen, man.
You either gonna let me in,  you know what I'm saying.
Ay, man.
Ay.
Never thought that, man.
Never thought that.
I had two people tell me when I first got the sign, they was like, nah, bruh, don't do it.
One of 'em is a rapper, and one of 'em is a-  is a nobody.
Mm-hm.
And to me, both of them nobodies, but, you know what I'm saying, I'm just li-  yeah, it's like, nigga, ay, you can't tell me what it is.
I'm- I'm getting it.
You know what I'm saying, like the sa- I b- I been grinding the same way, you know what I'm saying, but now people starting to-  to see me  cause of the light.
But the light powerful.
Look up the light in the Bible.
You know what I'm saying, look up the light anything.
You can't even walk down a dark alley without light.
Yeah, you not.
You gonna  god damn run into something.
Oh no, you gotta appreciate both.
Fuck the Super Bowl.
It's- um,  it's wack, man.
I- it's set up, man.
It's set up.
I mean, it's just set up period, man.
No way in hell this nigga winning all these championships, man.
They want this man to win all these championships like- Man, look,  the dude who w- who- who said they had to throw the game  the last year, man, told everybody  that, um,  the game was rigged, and he got fired.
So the game rigged.
I mean, I'm not gonna say all that, but- Man, it is though.
I mean, I feel like the NBA rigged too sometime.
I mean, they go out there and play they games, but  I mean, I don't know.
I don't really think about it-  football like that.
I feel like they doing that with football, man, with the-  with the- w- with the great white hope Tom Brady.
They don't want a Black man to ever be able to reach them goals, so they try to set the bar so high.
They give 'em all these- Man, why was my car not working, man?
Um, Yeah.
That's pretty much it.
Shit, Houston.
Man, Harden out here dropping sixty.
Oh, man.
Man, you know it, man.