Uh, RD-NAME-4.
Yeah, DJ RD-NAME-4.
You already know what it is, man.
DJ to the world, taking over the world.
Yeah, that's fine.
Um, most days I'm a Mexican, but- uh,   no, I'm a African American.
Twenty-seven years old.
Decatur, GA.
Yes, sir.
I have.
How was it growing up in middle school?
Um, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 Middle School.
U- um, uh, I would say, you know, life in there was- was cool as a African American male.
Um,  I'd say it was more not tailored towards, uh, I wish education just in school-wise would've been a little more,  um, I guess hands on.
We would've learned a lot of more.
Um, we-  I wouldn't say-  I definitely wouldn't say we were passed along, but we could've been, uh,  you know, ha-   what is the words?
We could've been  tightened down on a little more, but I think we still got good knowledge and understanding.
Um, a lot of real world situations came in at the time.
Um,  just going to the middle school that I went to, and it made people kind of look at things in life differently.
Um,  but it w- it was- you know, we weren't- it wasn't the hood, but it was majority African Americans.
Um, so it was like the a- it was like the middle class.
The middle class at that point in time was-  I'd say was still around in the early two thousands.
Um, now it's kind of fading to more  either poverty or rich.
Um, I'd say that was probably the last days of the middle class.
So,  um,  m- like I said, it was just kind of being a middle class African American,  you know, you had a lot of people who went e- either way, either they went up to the upper class or they went to the lower class.
Yeah, that quick.
Correct.
Oh, no.
Nah, that school was very old.
Uh, that sc- RD-SCHOOL-3 Middle School's been up, I know it, probably since like the sixties at least, maybe the seventies.
So yeah, that school is very old.
Um, Yeah, definitely was a aged school.
Um, well I w- originally went in to RD-SCHOOL-2 because RD-SCHOOL-3 wasn't built at the time.
Um, so when I did go into high school, yes, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
Um, it was a brand new facility.
I would say, um,  it definitely was a new vibe.
Uh, we had a- we had a interesting principal when I first started,  a man by the name of Dr.
RD-NAME-2.
Um,  definitely he- he kind of  embodied what now I wish that more of- of the b-  the educators would have kind of  went towards.
Um, I do understand, you know, he was very tough, very, uh, strict in what he did.
But now just being a- a eld- not a elderly man cause I'm definitely not elderly, but being a older man, I kind of see where his message was going at the time,  kind of just tried to get our heads on straight.
Um, we did a lot of different things that most schools in DeKalb County didn't do.
Um, it was because of the fact that I do see now too as well, um, when I first started RD-SCHOOL-3 High School,  it was actually, um, only ninth and tenth graders there.
So he was able to handle a less amount of kids.
He didn't have the typical  a thousand,  fifteen hundred high school in DeKalb County.
He maybe only had  three to four hundred kids that he could control.
Um, and it kind of- it started off as good because the majority of the people that I know that did last,  um, that started from the beginning, you know, are doing something with their selves.
But then, you know, it just kind of got-  that whole thing seemed to get- kind of got washed by the wayside, and it just kind of turned into the area  more than just the greatness of the school.
Mm.
Um, yeah.
I actually- because I DJ as well, um, I work actually with, uh, one of the  g- uh, she was a previous coach over there, Coach RD-NAME-2.
Um, I actually DJ a lot of the, uh,  talent shows, and, um, I've actually done some things for the basketball team,  um,  music-wise.
So I do still go up there occasionally.
I haven't been up there maybe in about a year or two now,  um, but just kind of keeping my ear to the streets.
Um, I have friends  who have kids who are,  um, at RD-SCHOOL-3 High School, and, you know, they just kind of said the culture's just completely different  from-  they didn't- they don't- but of course they wasn't there to know what our culture was.
But them telling me the culture of what it is now,  it's completely different from how it was when I was in school.
Uh, my mother was born in Cleveland.
My dad was born in  Detroit.
Um, both of them met in Cleveland,  and they moved down to Atlanta.
ATL.
Um, I mean, I've asked.
My parents are divorced, so of course I can't ask questions that- for them to be together so much.
Um, but from what I was told, I mean, Cleveland is just very cold.
Um, it did not have a lot of progressing things going on at the time.
Um, I think they came down in like the late eighties, mid eighties,  maybe- maybe even early seventies, probably like  in the eighties some time, though.
Um,  and when they came down, Atlanta, Georgia was jumping.
Um, Freaknik was just about to get started, you know, the kind of- the- the times of Atlanta.
It was nice and hot.
The prices of living was cheaper.
Um, there were more jobs here.
So that's kind of really w- it w- it- what it really was.
Um, they kind of get n- wanted to get away from their family members, so they started something brand new.
Um, I would definitely say that I'm looking into branching out.
Um, I'm currently a  single man, so I'm not worried a- so much about family life at the moment.
Um, when that situation does come, um, of course I don't think I would definitely want them in this area.
Uh, definitely the- the- the- the   East Atlanta area has definitely become a  not so great area to raise a child.
Um, so I would say raising a child-wise, I'd definitely go to another area.
But, um, at that moment I don't have those issu- I don't have those type thoughts.
So, um, family-wise, just it's something that's not really in my head at the moment.
Right, until- yeah, until other responsibilities are placed in.
Um, I have stepbrothers.
Um, all of my brothers are older than me.
My dad had previous kids, um, before he had me.
Um, three brothers, uh,  all of them are actually- well two of them are f- college football coaches, and one works  in- uh,  for the airport's  aviation- some of the stuff with flying the planes.
I- I don't know the exact title.
Um, it's- it's alright.
We have a relationship.
Um, they're a lot older, so of course that b- uh, builds a rift in one.
Um, and then because of just family issues, how years go down the line, pe- of course people build rifts for so many other situations.
Um, but it's still all love.
I still definitely love all of 'em.
Um, you know,  whenever they need me, if they know they really need me, they can get in touch with me.
But,  um, just kind of how family life is.
Like I said, I'm so worried ab-  I'm not so- I'm so focused on  what I got going on, the fact that they got they own lives in another state doing other things, um,  you know, we just all individuals right now.
They have a closer bond because they share the same  mother and father, and they around the same age.
Me, who's being the only child by my mother,  um, and raised like a only child, I kind of just more to myself.
How'd I get to school?
Um, well  because technically th- the area that I lived in was never RD-SCHOOL-3 area, um, so it was close enough where I could get there in a short amount of time,  but it wasn't-  that wasn't my school I was supposed to be in.
So typically, um, my beginning years, um, friends kind of- uh,  I was always a- I would say not a cool kid, but I always had friends who d-  were in the right place at the right time.
Um, kind of had, you know, people start picking me up  and taking me to school.
Um, I wasn't never too far cau- f- of some days moms would pick me up and take me.
Um, once I got to about like the tenth, eleventh grade though, it was just about time to take MARTA.
Um, I took MARTA for I'd say maybe all of my eleventh grade year.
Um, and then, uh, tenth grade- I mean, excuse me, when I was a senior, of course I did what every senior in high school does.
I got me my own car and- n-  and it was on from there.
Uh, I mean, I t- I  t- I took the cheese, but the cheese was m-  was more in- like when I was younger, like middle school and high school.
Actually in middle school I could walk to RD-SCHOOL-3 Middle school, so I never really had to take the cheese, but, yeah, the cheese was just elementary school pretty much.
Um, I was always a social studies and science person.
I love social studies and science, knowing about the history  and knowing about like, uh, you know, the  p- t- stuff with plants, life,  um, you know,  biospheres, uh,  different- the rainforests, deserts.
I've always just like interested in stuff like that.
Um, language arts,  I mean, I can read very well, but I just wasn't the-  I didn't like the literature that they had us reading, so I think that's more what made me didn't like language arts.
Um, and math, I just never- never been the best at math, so it wasn't my favorite subject, but, hey, I got B's and C's, so I got enough to pass.
Right.
Um, yeah.
I had multiple g- groups of friends.
Actually, um, like I said, I was a-  kind of a  g- a cool kid or whatever you could say.
Um,  I would play baseball, so I had a baseball, um,  clique of folks that I hung around with.
Um, as well I just had some folks that I knew since middle school, um, and kind of guys that I grew up with.
I had that group of friends.
I had a group of friends that were just associated with the neighborhood that I stayed in.
Um, and then I would say I kind of just met friends organically throughout school.
Um, so I had many groups of friends, but I would say the main people were the people who I played baseball with  and the ones who I grew up with from the middle school.
to the high school.
The middle school friends?
I mean, the- talking about the baseball friends?
Oh, just what we would do.
Um, I mean, we would kick it.
We would chill.
I have a group of friends, um, especially during the summer time, like we played baseball, so literally we would kick it and watch baseball, the Braves, um,  uh, the whole day then get on the video game and play a while,  um, go outside, you know,  it's- just enjoy the- enjoy the sunshine of course when we were younger.
Um, once we got older, it start more of going to different places  versus just being outside.
But when we were outside in middle school and stuff- I mean, when we were in middle school,  you know, you could just be outside, and you could find anything from  playing a sport to  kicking it on somebody's porch to  doing a billion things.
Um, once we got older, like I said, it was more  going to the movies, going to the mall, uh,  you know, different hang out spots, um,  more than anything.
My very first job was at Red Lobster.
I was a bus boy.
The Red Lobster on RD-ADDRESS-2 Road.
Um, I graduated high school, and, uh,  it was just pretty much time for me to get a job.
I had certain situations going on in life,  um, where I needed some extra dollars in my pocket.
I got my graduation money from high school.
I was able to stack that up, get ready to go to college.
So I worked, um, the summer of-  what was that?
Two thousand eight at Red Lobster on RD-ADDRESS-2 Road.
Um, I would say maybe because I've been here my whole life, m-  I can't  because it sounds normal to me.
Um, but I would definitely say that when I go to other states, definitely people can tell that I'm from the South, um, particularly Atlanta.
People can kind of really tell especially how- when, uh, you say Atlanta, um, people kind of know that, alright, he's from Atlanta if he say it like that.
Um,  now,  this side of town versus maybe like the west side, the south side, or the north side,  I don't think it's a difference.
Um, I just think the person may be more a little different versus the way they talk.
Um, the west side do kind of got a real slang, hood  very like,  uh, real h-  typical African American  stereotyped would of a Black man would be in Atlanta.
Um, that's how they're- that's the what- what sh- what people on the TV shows, a lot of times, that's kind of what that more portrays.
That side- now not saying that side hasn't built, um, great people because shi- u- shit, the f- previous mayor of Atlanta,  um,  Kasim Reed, he went to I think Mays High School.
Um, it was one of those high schools on the west side, so not to say that they don't have, you know, very prestigious people, but at the same time, the typical person from there  has a very hood, slang, country dialect.
Very, very.
Right.
Hm.
Uh, I mean, I-  the- the level of income.
The west side is typically the poorer place.
Um, the original- the original projects of Atlanta, the Bowen Homes, the  Fourth Wards, Mechanicsville, all that stuff is the west side of Atlanta, or a least where the west side of Atlanta begins to start.
Um, so a lot of that poverty  raised a certain amount o- a certain a-  type of people.
Again, the east side  was more  middle class than the west side, uh,  so you had a c- a few more people who-  who I would say went more proper, took the business route a little more, um, saw a little more life, saw a little more outside of two-eighty-five at a earlier age than versus the west side people.
So the west side people were typically  like I said, just the more hood, the more-  the more that way because there's just- that's the m- that's the p- that's the pri- uh, cost of living around there.
It was a lot of hoods, a lot of projects,  a lot of  crazy stuff going on on that side of town.
Mm.
Right.
We- we just in Atlanta, I think because one,  um, I think it's the Mecca right now of African American  urban culture.
Um, so we feel that because it's like a- it loo- it seems like it's a melting pot which it is  a melting pot of so many places down here in Atlanta.
Um, people feel that if you can- if you s-  if you sound like what's hot- what's Atlanta quote unquote hot,  then you s- then you'll- it'll be what the rest of the world, like it'll be what it- whatever,  which we have to understand especially as people who are doing, uh,  uh, art  cause that's what music is.
You just being creative and doing your art.
Like  your art gotta be bigger than that.
You don't want just  the people in- insi- i- in Atlanta to buy your music even if you say Georgia,  you have people across the world just- I mean, I understand that folks maybe like the Migos and Future, um, but they have a style that they kind of created on there.
And I wouldn't say that some of it hasn't been    a t- stolen, or  copied a little bit from other people,  but their style and their flow is their own and that's kind of what-  they're the more Atlanta-  they're the originators right now sadly enough.
Um, Future has his own lane.
Uh, the Migos have their own lane.
T.I.
has their- his own lane.
Um, I'm a-  OutKa- well, people don't really go to the OutKast lane too much these days.
Right, because the- right, and Kilo Alis and the Pa- and well not Pastor Troy cause he's definitely not Atlanta.
He's more g- he's Augusta.
Um, but those originators from- originally from Atlanta, that's kind of where-  because you- you do see it where Future, you know, th- hi- he kind of- it's more musical.
He has a lot of great production.
He has a lot of great beats.
He raps on so many different things.
Right, because he gets if from that Dungeon Family, from the Kilo Ali days, from the days when Atlanta was more, um,  I would say it was definitely lyrical, but it was definitely a vibe.
It was a beat.
It was a feel.
Um,  and even  to go all the way down to the Migos, um, they still now are definitely even more progressing.
They have that young urban culture.
They got that kind of  already swag with them, but you can see now that they're getting a little older, they're making more music,  it's becoming to sound more  musical, more instruments, more- um,  more thought out than just trapping out the bando.
Right.
Um, I definitely think that how the people are  affected  the music because that's really what this area is.
But I think that when it comes to music,  it's more of what got pushed more  than certain things.
It's not that there's other people in Atlanta  who are not making trap music that are great artists, that make great music,  but it's not getting that constant radio push.
It's not getting that constant,  uh, you know,  videos and things like that.
Um,  which at this point in time now so understandable cause it's- it's almost like it's- it's function is-  is already placed in our head that  that's what we- that's what we gonna enjoy.
We get  sucked in by the TV and all the stuff.
Um,  so it's kind of that.
I will say that words are very powerful,  um, and especially in African American culture,  um, we tend to-   we tend to move towards people who give strong words,  um, whether it be  a Martin Luther King, a Malcolm X, a President Obama,  a Future,  um,  whoev- if- if y- if- if we can feel your words, that's kind of where the group of the people go from even Earth, Wind and Fire.
People really felt those words, so  that's the kind of words that the people  of the times are d- are- are-  are moving towards, so that's what the times look like.
It was a lot of love- think about it, in- in the seventies and eighties, it was a lot of love music, so of course there was a lot of more love.
Don't get me wrong, seventies and eighties had its time with the drugs and, you know, a lot of crazy stuff going on,  um, just with- especially with this time in America.
But it was-  killings were going on, but it was a more peaceful time.
You didn't have to worry about,  you know, uh,  a nine- a nine year older-  a nine n- excuse me, nineteen year old going into a church, going into- shooting up a concert, doing- you know.
Now you did have some crazily racially based things, um, that were- you know, we- we do understand that that's what the times were, and it- it definitely isn't right.
But I just think that thi- these times are more violent because of things like that.
It- i- it's- it's the music.
It's the s- it's the different things like that,  um,  when it comes to that much.
Um, interestingly enough,  I'm very biased when it comes to DJing.
Now don't get me wrong, I do understand that there are certain songs  that, um, just because they're hot they need to get played.
But,  I- whe- when I DJ, my goal is not to make you really listen  to the song so much.
I want you to dance.
I want you to feel the vibe.
So  I would say  the songs that are like, uh, s- for example, there's a guy named SixNine out of New York.
He's has a very hot song, but I've probably maybe played that song  once or twice ever in my life.
Um, and the two times that I did play it, I didn't get the vibe.
I didn't get the feel.
Um, so I just don't play it anymore.
Uh,  and now, if there's a special request, or someone needed it, and they were paying me, of course I would play it.
But I just feel that  just because as- a-  we have a responsibility as a DJ to kind of curate what's going on  in the music culture.
So if I constantly keep playing it,  that's the only reason that people are remembering it.
Like there's certain songs that-  I mean, because especially Atlanta, we party from Monday to Monday.
So if you go out one night, you- you listening to s- music the next night, you on Instagram the next night,  and,  uh, you done went out let's say a night after that as well too,  and then the other night you was working, and you was listening to the radio,  and every single night, you heard w- it just happened to be one song in particular,  um,  you're gonna constantl- that song is gonna get stuck with you regardless of how- regardless of how much you don't want it to or n- on- or not.
If you constantly listen to it,  you will remember the words.
You will remember the melody.
You will remember the flow,  and it's either gonna stick to you one way or another.
You either gonna like it, or you're gonna dislike it.
Most people,  because it's all a similar flow,  like it, so if we sit up here and constantly keep playing the BS, then  eventually BS is what's gonna run.
So that's why  like I d- I- I personally- like I have no Famous Dex.
Um, I don't- I n- I ta- I have one Famous Dex song, that Pick It Up I think is actually pretty dope.
Um, I don't have many XXXTentacion.
I have him on the Roll In Peace track.
Um, SixNine, I don't.
I- like I said, I have the one song of his, the Gummo, um, even though he has Billboard tracks.
Big shoutout to them, you know.
They're making money and doing whatever they should do in their crowd.
Um,  Billboard has to do with a lot of  people that are not African American, so when it comes to that, you know, hey, that mean white people is loving your stuff.
That doesn't mean our culture is loving your stuff.
Um,  so, like I said, I feel that  I- I- I feel like I'm gonna play what's gonna-  what I enjoy  when I play music.
I- sadly enough, I'm very biased.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Uh, again, I think it's m- it is the- that melting pot thing, and it's- and it's for us- us to understand that  music is so much bigger.
Like that is what's pushed on us.
There are-  you can listen to the radio right now in Atlanta, and there are probably at least five Migos songs played in a hour.
If it's not a- if it's not a Migos song, it's a song featuring a Migo.
S-  Right, and- and I mean it's- it's t- it's probably gonna be like that.
So  when you have artists who are from Atlanta who sound different,  they just don't get that respect because  that's n- that's not what's being pushed.
That's not what these big labels- because that's o-  that's the only reason your songs get honestly in rotation in- in hip hop which a lot of folks don't know.
It's coming down from these labels.
These labels are paying  top dollar to these r- uh, radio exec companies  to the top DJ's, and the top DJ's are just sending the music out to their crew, and they're playing the stuff.
But it's these- it's the- the m- the Migos tracks, the Cardi B's tracks, the w- Future tracks, the whatever is hot at the time.
And typically tracks like the- uh,  the Childish Gambinos and CyHis where it might be more  lyrical or might be more eclectic,  there's just- that's not what the companies are tryna fund.
Um, this is actually Jacquees.
Tha- actually this guy's actually literally from the same street  that, uh, was the same main street I was on- that I grew up on, RD-ADDRESS-4.
Um, m- so I definitely love the fact that, you know, he's out there.
Um,  he has a- he's been very talented since he was a kid actually,  um,  with his singing.
So, um,  I definitely love the fact that that's a guy- like I said, I literally  p- saw him  at a wing spot when he was  thirteen, twelve years old with a group of other guys around, you know, singing to females, him just singing happy birthdays and stuff like that.
So, um, I definitely love seeing that because I know that's he's on a larger scale right now.
I would think it is too.
I just think it's a- more about the content in what you singing.
Um, a lot of- a l- you have to kind of  still be hip hop.
You gotta still sing about sex, murder, drugs, and guns, you feel what I'm saying.
You can't really- nobody's really singing about love anymore because love is so- love is so- is so  cliche r- now.
So many people are falling out of love.
You got the whole gay thing, so you- you know, that's a whole different type of love,  um, so many divorces,  and it's not cherished anymore.
It's kind of more like,  alright, I'm more focused on my money or more focused on my life and my goals than-  than  being in love because being in love  doesn't seem to get people far these days, it doesn't bring people happiness.
What brings people happiness is money,  and m- sadly enough it's running the world, so that's what's running  music.
That's what's running businesses.
Um, that's why you don't get a lot of, you know, just  people  giving out- I mean, think about it.
Sprint charges you literally-  or Comcast, or these m-  people, you feel what I'm saying, literally hundreds and thousands and thousands of dollars,  and they never say, hey, you know what?
You payed your bill sixteen months in a row  on time  no matter what.
You know what?
The least we can do is this month, we're gonna give you fifty percent off.
This month we gonna take them- the- you know, take it off.
Because if the- if it was a love thing and if it was appreciation for me-  us doing business together, that's what would happen.
Because that's what you would do business with anybody.
After so long,  you gonna be like, hey, you know what?
Boom.
But that's not what  this country's built off.
It's built off of- it's built off of money.
It's ran off of money, so  if it ain't making dollars in they eyes, it just don't make sense.
So-  and love don't make dollars.
Um, I would just say we are very brainwashed in that sense on who we pay  and the services that we allow.
Um, it's kind of funny.
Again on RD-ADDRESS-4,  there are multiple  fast food restaurants, horrible restaurants.
I hate the f- hate that.
But there's one restaurant that's a Chick-fil-A on there, um, and that Chick-fil-A has probably got the most business  probably out of anything on RD-ADDRESS-4 in all honesty.
Probably even bigger than the grocery store.
That Chick-fil-A might bring in the most business.
Um, yeah, you know, it- it could- the grocery store might be because it's the grocery store.
But that Chick-fil-A probably brings in the most business, and they have excellent service there.
Now don't get me wrong.
There's sometimes where,  you know, situations happen where, you know, this- just situations in the area that it's in.
But it's all about a choice cause it's a mind set.
Those same people that's working in that Chick-fil-A  are the same people that's working in the Taco Bell across the street.
There's no difference in really  the hiring process or the, you know,  the qu-  the qualifications you have to have.
But because of how that standard of how that restaurant is ran, people  only expect certain stuff from that.
So if we kind of held their own- our- their own standard to our own businesses and stuff like that.
And a lot of things folks gotta understand, you feel what I'm saying, that  yes, i-  if we don't spen- if we don't spend our own dollar back, it doesn't matter  how much money we spend with the other folks because eventually we will be wiped out.
And that's kind of what it seems like they want us to do.
And that's why a lot of Afri- well i- sadly enough,  a lot of African Americans with money,  they go move into another a- neighborhood because  the amount of money that's being recycled in a Black neighborhood  ain't nothing because the few Blacks that got a little bit of money,  they go to the white areas.
They go to the- the north side of town to spend their money,  the s- uh, you know another side versus,  you know, us kind of saying, hey, let's build something on this side  and keep the money spending in our own neighborhood.
I think that we do kind of hold in our heads for whatever reason other  businesses to a higher standard because there are businesses in  the East Atlanta area where-  um, where, uh,  Black businesses- where they are thriving.
Um, there's one in particular, a seafood spot.
It's actually a house  that they turned into a restaurant called Wats Crackin,  um, on Candler Road.
It's a Black businesses that brings in lots of money.
It's constantly bunking from when it's open to when it's closed.
And  because they give out goo- g- good quality,  you know, there is a wait time a lot of the time but people understand that because of the amount of people  that are there, right, and the quality of the food, the amount that they give you, the pricing is decently priced.
Like sometimes there is a wait,  and- but people still line up for it every day.
So who's to say why can't that be  on every Black business?
Why- you know, from seafood to-  to burgers joints to breakfast spots to-  uh, we can have our own Italian spots.
We can have our own Mexican spots.
There a lot of  you feel what I'm saying, there are  o-  we- Chinese food ain't no secret into what is- is cooking.
Like  i- half of it's n- probably not even real  chicken half the time anyway, and all it is is a different seasoning, chicken, and some rice.
You know, they have different lo meins and vegetables and stuff like that, but we- right, we can cre- we can do that.
I n- I have a partner actually that went to high school with me, him and his dad own a Mexican restaurant.
Um, and it's a very successful res- Mexican restaurant.
Uh,  right, exactly, and lo- a- l- I- well, the Chinese spots, a lot of 'em- how they have it set up in Atlanta, you can see who's cooking it, um, cause the- how that open format is, but  I mean, like I said, it's a Mexican restaurant.
It's nothing but African Americans that work there.
They make good money, great money.
So like I said, i- it's more of a mind thing, man.
We kind of  will- i- i- i- it's- it's a mental thing.
We- we hold other businesses to a higher standard,  and we don't wanna give ours the benefit of the doubt.
C-