Yo yo.
RD-NAME-4 Okay.
Uh, Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
You feel me.
Thirty-one, you feel.
Uh, I'm'a say Black and Creole.
Yeah, I'm from New Orleans, you feel me.
Got- got that little Creole running in my blood as well.
Okay.
Uh, to be honest with you, I been in Atlanta m- more that what motherfuckers really  actually even think, you feel.
But I'm'a say about a good-  about a good  maybe ten, fifteen,  you feel me, years, you feel me, like yeah, but I st- I still go back home.
I still originate with my roots, you feel me, you know,  touch- touch bases with my family and, you know, s- be around my people, you know.
Yeah man, I'm NOGA, N-O-G-A, man, you know what I mean.
NOGA, you feel me.
New Orleans, Georgia, man.
Actually I actually had graduated two thousand five, and, um, I was home probably like-  probably like three, four months,  you know, and then-  then Katrina hit while I was home.
S- in Louisiana.
New Orleans, Louisiana be,  you know, precise.
I was there when that bitch hit.
It was- it was basically like New Orleans, the whole New Orleans, uptown, downtown, the east, you know what I mean.
Like everything really got real fucked up down there, you feel me.
You know, a lot of- a lot of- a lot of people lost they lives.
A lot of floods took-  took  everything out,  you feel me.
And also one thing I'd like to say is like, um,  in the Ninth Ward, you feel me,  like  they blew the levee, bro.
I don't- like  people- people are gonna say what they wanna say, but at the end of the day, that levee-  that levee been blown before,  and the damage that was done to the levee,  a-  a flood or hurricane literally couldn't do that type of damage, you feel what I'm saying.
S- yeah, so, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
Yeah.
Yeah, you feel me.
Not necessarily.
I feel like they b- they broke the levee for- at the end of the day, everything else in New Orleans, especially the up and the down-  downtown New Orleans as far as the Ninth Ward like to get flooded, you feel me, for,  you know, not ins-  not insurances policies, but at the end of the day, for like- to-  to bring hurt towards the people.
You know, New Orleans is a very,  I'm'a use this word, sin city city, you feel me.
And it's a lot of- it's a lot of stuff that people, you know, don't understand that go on.
A lot of people say voodoo, you know, Geechee stuff go down there, but at the end of the day,  it's-  it's really that.
You know, it's a lot of sin, you know.
So in my eyes, I really look at it like, you know, in the Bible, God said, you know, like  he w- he will cleanse the i-  cleanse the earth,  and I feel like New Orleans that  Hurricane Katrina  and Hurricane Rita had cleansed New Orleans  to a certain extent, you know.
Yeah, M- yeah, you got to.
You got to.
Alright.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh, we- my cousin RD-NAME-3 stayed down here, you know,  and, um,  cousin RD-NAME-3 used to stay with us in the past, you feel me.
He- he went through a little- a little- a little drug problem, but,  you know, God touched his heart a- and saved him, you feel me, and made him bounce back how he's supposed to.
So we end up staying with him and his wife and his two daughters, you feel me, so,  you know, that- that put a big insight as far as Atlanta.
You know, so we had- we had a little family down here, but everything was totally different, you know, trees, the hills,  not the city, you know, like,  you know, just  moving around, people was different, the accents, you know.
But, you know, y- you be one place long enough, you l- you learn a vibe.
You learn how to-  how to educate yourself with certain-  certain things, you know.
Alright, I'm'a- I'm'a say this like- alright, like,  you know, they had the Goodie Mobs, the OutKast, you feel me, you know.
Atlanta always embraced, like  other states with music,  you know, tryna find theyself, you feel me, but    i- it- it was really the Goodie Mobs and the OutKast that really brought Atlanta really  to the-  to the market of  mainstream as far as like music, you get what I'm saying.
And  niggas was able to understand where niggas was coming from, you feel me.
And- but now these days, it's like-  like I said, other states influence Atlanta.
Atlanta is- is a place where  it's not just people from Atlanta.
It's people from different countries, people from different states, so it's- it's one big swag pool.
One big sauce pool, you feel me, so like, you know, like when I came down here, it was GDs and Crips, you know.
Now it's majority Bloods and Crips, you know, so at the end of the day, it's like,  you know, s- something influenced something, you get what I'm saying, in order for things to be a little different.
Flavor.
Flavor.
You gotta have that fla- you just gotta have that drip, gotta- you know what I mean.
It's like it's so many things you could say.
But now Atlanta is  the state that  influence other states.
Everybody  wanna either have a little Atlanta when they rap, when they dress, you know, just like  what that boy name is?
In- in New York I milly rock.
you know what I mean, like he from the A but he moved to New York.
That Gucci gang, Gucci gang, he not from Atlanta, you see what I'm saying, like, you feel me.
It's- it's a lot of people that done got influenced from Atlanta cause Atlanta was like the state that they looked at, like that the down East Coast, you feel me, like oh, them niggas ain't- them niggas slow.
They don't talk fast, you feel me.
but now at the end of the day everybody on they dick, you feel me, so, you know, so, ay,  that's- you know, that just my-  my way I see things in my eyes, you feel me, so.
Quite some time, seen a lot of shit.
Mm-hm.
I feel like if Atlanta keep on going the way they going, they could probably run about a good nother ten years before something else really just- Yeah, you know, a- Al- hard right now.
It's like- but you know- but you know, everything is a full circle.
You know, it start somewhere, and everybody have they time, then it come back to where it originated from,  you know.
So  it a- it all depends on how you look at it.
You know, like  nigga- you know, like I remember  Busta Rhymes had some shit where he diss- he dissed Atlanta on that-  that New York, whatever song that was, you feel me, you know what I mean.
You know, like  California wasn't messing with Atlanta,  you know.
It's like it was a whole bunch of  different things, you feel me,  and a lot of niggas came from a lot of states, you feel me, that had they own little swag, you feel me.
But at the end of the day, when you- which- if you really listen to some shit on the radio,  if you ain't really hearing niggas that sound like they from Atlanta, you hearing Atlanta niggas, and if not that, you hearing  R and B shit.
But also I'm'a say this though, you know what I mean, like- yeah, and they- they ra- they ran with it, you know what I mean, but it- you know, it's still- it's still not like- like to me in my eyes, everybody wanna be a Migo,  you feel me.
Migos are hard, don't get me wrong, you feel me.
Everybody wanna be a Migo.
Everybody wanna, you know what I mean, like  sound like the Migos, you know what I mean, and at the end of the day, you feel me Amigos, they- they- they put they work in, you feel me, so, you know what I mean, I respect it, you feel me.
I ain't a hater.
I b- I respect it, you feel me.
But at the end of the day, one- everybody was trying to be T.I.'s at first  Shawty Los, Gucci Manes, you feel me.
So it's like Atlanta bite Atlanta swag,  you feel me.
And they been doing it, so niggas get away with certain shit.
But when it come from a different state, then niggas want beef with the next nigga,  you feel me, cause they ain't from the A,  you feel me, so.
Yeah.
Knew, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, no- lit.
for long times.
A- Like that shit dropped two thousand mother fucking seven eight, you feel me.
You see what I'm saying, come on, you feel.
Yeah.
Niggas- niggas- niggas been doing that shit, you feel me.
They got a new song with, um,  uh, Gucci Mane,  mother fucking Wayne, Rick Ross or some shit.
And it's- it's some old school shit that used to be playing at mother fucking, um,  what's that club on Bankhead, you feel me?
Not Crucial, but it's- it's another one.
Like where ever- I'm Gucc.
I'm Gucc.
Where everybody really started off at, you feel me, like where DG Yola started off, rest in peace, you feel me, like, you know what I mean, I can't think of it right now.
It'll come to me though, you feel me.
But like, niggas- niggas been doing that shit, bro.
DJ Unk,  Unk-  Oomp Camp, you know what I mean, like all that shit, you feel me, like and that d-  yeah.
That niggas is still- niggas is still running with that swag though, bro, like niggas is still- I- man, I heard some shit from DJ Unk the other day, my nigga, and I don't- I- y-  I don't know h- you feel me.
Like, I just listen to this shit, and that was it, you feel me.
I vibe, you feel me, yeah, but you know what I mean, I st- you know, nigga- niggas came from, you know what I mean, that era, you feel me.
D- DJ Unk.
That nigga w- uh,  whatever s- now watch me two step.
You feel me.
You feel me.
I thought that nigga dead, bro.
I don't- but you know, niggas say everything though, but at the end of the day, the- when I did my little research, I don't know.
I think the nigga dead,  you feel me,  you know what I mean.
N- by now.
Y- but I know he got a life sentence though.
He murked a nigga, you feel me, shot a nigga in the head, you feel me.
You know, he got shot in the head, got shot in the face, and got shot in the arm.
Yeah, you feel.
Yeah.
You feel me, so when it come to other niggas, and you still n- a street nigga you dealing with other niggas the first thing you are in this life.
Yeah, I ain't gon- talking about that, uh, I ain't gonna let up.
I ain't gonna let up, nah, I ain't gon-  that shit wa- yeah.
Yeah, that shit was fire.
That nigga did that shit though, fool.
I ain't gonna even lie to you.
I thought that- look, I remember going- what's the name of that fucking club, bro?
If I- I'm'a- I'm'a think of the name.
I'm'a f- I'm'a text my partner, you feel me.
But I'm- the first time I heard Yola, nigga, I thought that was Boosie, nigga.
I ain't know- you feel me, I ain't know who that was, you feel me.
And I'm- I'm from that city, you feel me.
I'm from Louisiana, so that just show you at the end of the day, like real niggas was listening to real music, you feel me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, you feel me.
It's- it's a different- niggas brought a different swag to the table, grinding motherfucker.
I'm Gucci, bro.
You know, like yeah, bro.
You know, yeah, I- I feel you though, you know what I mean.
Like I was just saying to myself, I'm higher than a motherfucker.
I hit that bitch one time.
Good  this nigga tell me See, man, you know it- Yeah, you feel me, like I ain't gon- I ain't gonna lie.
I'm a st- I was a stoner.
I did a little time in DeKalb, you feel me.
You know what I mean, whole year, you know what I mean, to be precise, you feel me.
Came back home, you feel me,  you know, I'm still a stoner, but,  you know, with-  with wisdom come knowledge, with knowledge come wisdom, you feel me.
So I end up lying like  everything ain't about getting high,  you feel me.
And I tap that bitch every now and then, you feel me.
But there's a bigger calling in life,  and I rather be focused, you see what I'm saying,  than be blow.
But I still get- I still get blow, and I ain't even necessarily just talking about weed, you feel me.
I still- I still get- I still jig.
Jig, you know what I mean.
I still jig, you feel me, but that weed, I done- I done got a little edge on that shit, you know what I mean, unless I'm'a just blow it  every day  with that-   Nah, bro.
I'm Gucci.
I'm Gucci, bro.
What?
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
I appreciate you.
The clubs started on some crunk shit, you feel me.
Lil Jon had niggas getting crunk.
The Crime Mob had niggas fighting in the club, you feel me.
Then mother fucking  OutKast had niggas two stepping in the club, then  DJ Unk had niggas walking it out in the club this nigga tell me.
And then mother fucking Gucci had niggas on they dope boy shit,  they- you know what I mean, they swag, you feel me.
Then swag and surf had niggas surfing in the club.
Soulja Boy had niggas d-  dancing in the club, you feel me.
Now it's on some straight dope boy shit.
It- like, it went back to that st- real street shit, you feel me, like, you know what I mean, but you might every now and then catch some old-  you know what I mean,  some dance hall type shit.
Yeah, watch- y- watch me nae nae type shit, you know what I mean, like, you feel me.
Juju on the beat type shit, you know what I mean.
Anyway  yeah, that's they own little circle, you feel me.
They made that shit do what it do.
They- they conduct that shit in the right form an fashion, you dig it, you know what I mean.
Hit the Qua- hit the Quan, you see what I'm saying, like, you feel me, like Yeah, it's still- it's still- it's the Future, you feel me.
It's that Thug.
Thugger,  you feel me, you know what I mean.
It's the mother fucking Meek Mill, somebody save-  It's like- it's- it's- it's- it's like, you know what I mean,  in my eyes, how- even some Kevin Gates, you feel me.
S- I look at like it's on some shit like  niggas is putting they- it's still some trap shit cause niggas still trap.
Niggas still say, or niggas still do they thing.
But it's more of- of some shit like, you know what I mean, niggas putting they hearts on the line.
Niggas is saying shit that's getting niggas locked up.
Niggas ain't-  it's reality rap, you feel me.
In- in a- in a- in a aspect, you feel me.
Kodak- Kod-  Kodak- Kodak Black just got locked up, you know what I mean, like just from beefing with another nigga, you feel me, on Snapchat and not knowing who all are watching the shit.
Them folks ran in that bitch,  and even got cruelty to kids.
Now I know that nigga love his little boy, bro.
But at the end of the day,  you can get cruelty to kids not doing shit to your child.
Your child being around a pistol.
On a Black man, you feel me.
I appreciate you though.
I appreciate you though.
Like that's what- that's what it is though.
Donald Trump president, my nigga, like come on, man.
Like nigga- I ain't never- I ain't think he was gonna win that bitch,  you feel me.
But at the end of th- but I'm'a tell you like this.
And from- from a- from a- from a- from a- from a Black man nigga perspective on some real nigga shit, like if you really peep game,  Donald Trump  everybody that run,  they need  people to donate shit.
They tryna get, you know what I mean, sponsors and shit.
Donald T- fuck that, Donald Trump had his own check.
So  come on, man.
And niggas, they got checks, you feel me.
But at the end of the day, that man got a check, bro.
So he ain't have to go through  a- um,  either do this for me or rallying on this  a- rallying on that or some type of shit like that, you feel me.
That's a plane.
That bitch look like a little missile, like nigga- like Korea finna got down.
You feel me, like nigga finna bomb this bitch.
Fuck is that?
You feel me.
That bitch is moving kind of fast though, huh.
Yeah, yeah.
You had me thinking somebody's outside the- out the m-  I'm finna grab the G unit  Fuck.
this nigga tell me.
Fuck that.
Y'all redneck Yeah.
I generally- everybody gonna dress alike.
That just how it is, you feel me Ah, d- nah, before time- before time, niggas was dressing how th- ever the fuck they wanted to dress, you feel me.
Nah, y- I mean, yeah.
I mean, you would say- I ain't wanna say before the internet.
I'm'a say before Myspace and all that shit.
Before shit like when we was little that we was able to be like, what the fuck is this type shit?
You know what I mean.
Niggas w- you know, they had the west side niggas dress like this.
Your east side niggas dress like this.
Your south side niggas,  north side niggas, you know what I mean.
Now everybody on designer belts, you feel me, tight jeans.
If- if they ain't  it's Trues.
Uh, you know what I mean,  Louis, Gucci, all that extra shit y- I- I still-  I st- you feel me.
A lot of niggas don't even know that.
Like nigga, I'm one of the niggas that- I'm- I'm'a talk shit now.
I one of the niggas started all that, the fir- one of the first niggas that had tat in his face, bro.
Like  come on, man.
Niggas was not ta-  I was banging RD-NAME-1 before niggas was even banging RD-NAME-1, bro.
you know what I mean.
Like niggas a- niggas is walking up to you, what's up, cuh?
What's up, cuh?
What's up, folk?
What's up, folk?
I'm talking about t- a- niggas was saying the same shit, but niggas ain't even know why they was saying that shit.
Niggas ain't know that shit was slick gang related, you feel me,  'til somebody tell- Yeah.
What's a- just Atlanta slang, like shit, what's up, cuh?
What's up, folk?
Nah, nigga that- you know cuz a Crip, Folk GD, you know what I mean.
Like and now, you know what I mean, I been banging RD-NAME-1, you know what I mean, an- before Wayne was banging Blood, bro.
And now niggas is- you know what I mean, what's popping, blood- yo woo.
When the see- come on, bro.
A lot of niggas- I know a lot of niggas switched over when they seen Wayne banging Blood.
But Wayne was one of the niggas that was the most street nigga- the streetest nigga out there, you feel me as far as- That how I looked at that shit, like on some real shit, bro.
Like,  you know, you had your Trick Daddies and shit, you feel me, like, but- you know what I mean, but he only gonna- he only gonna  affect a certain c-  you catch that for me.
Catch that door.
He only gonna affect a certain culture, you see what I'm saying.
Like but Wayne came on some- on some tattoos on my face, golds in my mouth, sagging,  G- Gucci, Louis.
Yeah at what he did.
His craft was a beast too though.
His craft is o- is still a beast to this day.
That dedication, six nigga.
That nigga stupid, bro.
By the grace of God.
I put God f- look  I put God first with everything I do.
This nigga tell me tatted in my face  this nigga tell me  and at the end of the day, like it's God, you feel me, you know what I mean, i- it ain't me, you feel me.
I'm- I'm part of it, you know, cause it comes out of me, but- and like  he touched my mind, you feel me, and at the end of the day,  you know, with wisdom comes knowledge, bro.
You learn how to speak certain shit and how to say certain shit.
You can put some shit together, you feel me.
Like  I was watching Limitless, bro,  the movie, bro, you know, they talking about that NZT shit.
Something- it supposed to be a drug that make you- you ain't the only one- I- nigga will blow up one day with they music, you feel me, like all the way, gonna touch all the right people you're connected with, all the right people you're fam with.
On another note, you know what I mean, like I just-  I just got a- I got a beautiful mind, bro.
I got a beautiful mi-  I got a beautiful mind, you s- you feel me.
My shit j- yeah, you feel me.
My shit just- you feel me.
It's like a butterfly.
That bitch,  you know, started in a cocoon.
That bitch, it came out the cocoon and just- you feel me.
That's it, bro.
And I ain't talking about- I get-\ oh yeah, and I ain't talking about the life span either though cause you know butterfly life span ain't long either, forty-five days to the max, you feel me, so.
you know what I mean, like, nigga I got forty-five years on this shit that I'm'a make it do what it do, you feel me Yeah man, yeah they want- yeah.
I ain't gonna lie though, feeling good,   been drinking this- uh, this  apple vodka.
No n- we ain't gonna say no names, you see what I'm saying, silent k- you dig.
I just cooling it, bro, you feel me.
I'm finna get my Pro Tools up and running, you know what I mean, fuck around with some shit, you feel me.
The first, my nigga.
Yeah, bro.
Like season of what?
The Aquarius or some shit like that?
I fuck with 'em though.
RD-NAME-4 Aquarius.
It's like a water motion too.
Them- no disrespect, them hoes like- you see what I'm saying, them hoes like, man,  look, either you riding with the wave, you feel me, or you going against the current.
If you going against the current, my nigga, you might- y- you might get- you might drown in that bitch.
You might get fucked up, bro.
Mm-hm, feel me, that shit serious.
Hell nah.
That wave ain't no hoe.
I'm a Capricorn, you know, we c- we come, we see, we conquer.
We first, you feel me, like,  you know what I mean, in-  in as far as America terms cause-  you know,  but we first, nigga.
Like, nigga, we-  you feel me, capping like a ca- like Gucci said, capping like a Capricorn, nigga.
We- a- d- like I- that shit was probably like s- about six, seven years ago.
He been on it, yeah.
Yeah.
nig- yeah, they been said that shit.
They been rock that shit.
They been push that shit, bro.
You feel me, yeah, you feel me.
And at the end of the day,  niggas finally put two and two together though,  you know what I mean, with- when niggas was more-  more wise niggas could been seeing what the niggas was talking about,  you know.
I l- I lent- Yeah.
N- not- Yeah, I'm-  I- alright.
Cap- yeah, like you- yeah,  you feel me, capping, it's like- you know, it's like- it's l- basically another word for jigging.
Trap, you feel me, nigga, it was just like- you feel me, like it's a trap, know, folks tryna get you in a trap while you selling dope.
And then nigga- then niggas rearranged that bitch and put that bitch to I'm in a trap.
But at the end of the day, you feel me, you hear the niggas like, nigga hit your phone, what's popping, bro?
I'm in the trap.
You speak life and death to exist with your tongue, you feel me, so you in the trap, you feel me.
Then you wonder why s- shit get f- Nah.
Uh,  you feel me, n- Not freedom, but on some shit like- you know what I mean, just like what you doing, you feel me.
You want- y- like, I understand you trapping, you feel me.
But then, you know, but at the end of the day,  trap means to contain, you feel me.
S- Yeah.
Yeah, I'm capping these niggas, I'm capping off of this jug.
Ye-  Yeah.
Nigga- and- and not- not necessarily mean your mind stuff but your situation you might be stuck.
You might not be able to g- like Boosie said one day,  he was like,  I can't get past fifty thousand.
I'm in the trap.
You feel me, like- like niggas- niggas mind elevating, niggas getting older, niggas looking at shit, niggas seeing niggas dying, blase this blase that, you feel me.
But niggas is stuck in that situation where, you feel me, like- yeah, you feel me,  and that's it.
Yeah, you feel me, like, yeah, you feel me.
It's the same rerun, nigga, you feel me.
I do feel you though, bro.
Man, you know, I- before I lock-  before I got locked up, I- you know, I was growing it, been about a year  then I got locked up.
That was about two years,  and then in March it's gonna be-  I mean now it almost a year,  so that's gonna be three years.
So about-  about a good  two  and three fourths,  yeah, you feel me.
Made that bih do what it do.
I was thinking about it.
I ain't a- I'm a clean- I'm a clean nigga, you feel me.
Don't get me wrong, I- n- dreads, you feel me, you know, it's on some- you know, I'm a street nigga first and foremost, you feel me, but  I'm a nigga where I like- I like that cleanness.
I- you know what I mean, like, you know, but who knows, bro, you know.
Everything is predestined, you feel me, whether it's gon-  when I'm'a cut that bitch and whatever the fuck, you feel me.
This nigga tell me.
Hoes gonna choose regardless.
I actually didn't, bro.
When- what day it came on?
Nah, I ain't catch that bitch.
I probably was binging on mother fucking Netflix.
I fuck around in- writing in the studio, mother fucking writing- writing some songs and just to some beats or some shit.
But I ain't gonna even lie, I  probably was binging on Netflix for real for real.
I do my music, don't get me wrong,  you kn- I lock and load, you know what I mean, when the kids- you know,   you dig.
But nah, I probably was binging, bro.
I probably had some shit on my mind, was watching some shit.
I got all type of shit going on, bro, like I- I-  I'm a like- I'm a like  mother fucking sci-fi kind of guy, action packed this nigga tell me, like niggas killing their niggas  like that's a alien to the third degree with beaucoup fucking chopper guns and n- you know what I mean, like just on some weird shit, you know what I mean, like yeah, bro, you feel me.
I watched that Strangers two, like that shit-  that sh- I ain't gonna even lie, that shit was  crazy as fuck.
But it- you know what I mean, it- it was some shit I was able to get into,  you know what I mean, so I fuck with that shit.
You know what I mean, like it's all type of shit come on that bitch, dog.
I been watching literally like-  Katt Williams just dropped some shit  on that bitch, you feel me.
I don't remember the name of that bitch but it's some new shit.
You know he cut his hair?
Man, that bitch stupid dog.
That shit stupid dog, and that nigga- that nigga keeping it straight one thousand.
He keeping it one hundred about white folks, you know what I mean, voting for Trump and all type of shit, bro, like n- you feel me.
He was- he was just talking about niggas, you feel me, but it's just the simple fact, like that nigga's- that nigga's a smart guy, bro.
Like that nigga- Yeah.
But he- you know, yeah.
Cause at the end of the day, he don't wanna say what the gover- what the- what the governments, what the niggas around him wanna say.
He like shit, nigga, my whole-  my whole  campaign, nigga,  came out my pocket, nigga.
So niggas can't tell me shit, can't tell me how to- you know what I mean.
But I always was taught this though,  every president they got  come- they all same blood.
They all come from some type of ancestry, bro, you feel me, so who- even Obama, bro.
He's not all the way Black though,  you know what I mean.
As far as us niggas, yeah.
But as far as white people, he ain't all the way Black.
He got some white that run in his blood just like they got some Bla- every b- every white person got some Black.
Shit, they do though.
Yeah.
Yeah, to not acknowledge it.
They got too many commercials on TV where they show a Black woman and a white man or a white-  or a white woman and a Black man.
You don't see the Black man and the white woman too many times,  but y-   but you-  you might- you might catch the white man and the Black woman, you feel me, like  a- you feel me, bro, like you see what I'm saying, they got the older son, you feel me, and the little girl.
It's always some shit like that, you feel me, it's a- weird.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't even know, bro.
Now that's one thing I don't know.
I know we supposed to be what, minority or some shit.
So we ain't- Yeah, yeah.
Ten or twelve percent or some shit like that.
But then I heard you only use ten or twelve percent of your brain too.
So-  so what the fuck?
You feel me.
You know what I mean, so who-  who the fuck knows, bro?
You feel me.
And if- and they ain't gonna really keep it one thousand when niggas- let a nigga know what the fuck really going on, you feel me.
Shit, every day.
My little girl, what, five years old.
They always send her home with some shit.
Now that shit simple though.
Now- now when it comes to that  fucking MC squared decimal divided by d- X fraction.
Yeah, that shit coming, but I'm'a make sure I'm ready though.
Fuck that shit.
I be damned see m- like, my dad don't even know how to answer this question.
You got me fucked up.
Yeah,  finna play me cause I ain't gonna even lie, when I was little, used to a-   I used to ask my dad and shit.
Nigga, you don't-  well, look, uh, l-  l- let me call your auntie.
Nigga, you supposed to know this shit.
Bitch, you done went to- to the- to the mother fucking  high school, the n- the navy, a little college, you feel me.
Bitch, you supposed to know this shit.
But at the end of the day, you know what I mean, everybody that be- Yeah.
Yeah.
Why he ain't never fuck with it then?
It just fuck it, huh.
That ain't like, don't do it.
that fuck around.
You stupid, bro.
Ay, fuck that shit.
That what I say  when they try to recruit me.
like suck- And they actually fucking what they say.
Yeah.
you might come back with just a leg or a arm.
Nigga-  nigga, I- how the fuck I'm'a fuck this hoe now, bruh?
You- feel- fuck yeah, Yeah.
I know a lot of niggas that go to like the National Guard and shit, uh, you know what I mean, you feel me.
It's not really the- the- the real army type shit, some shit where you go- yeah, like, you feel me.
But if a war, they gonna call your ass.
But shit, nigga, I- I been with they ass for a week.
It b- you feel me.
Fuck that shit.
Bruh, we need everybody from the National Guard, every time some shit hit with the hurricanes or some dumb ass shit.
I need everybody from the National Guard, and then we call the folk from the Navy.
Why the fuck y'all call the National Guard first?
They like the niggas for the petty jobs, you feel me.
This nigga tell me.
Not tryna be disrespectful, but, you know what I mean, like- Yeah, you feel me, like, niggas be having post- post- post something depression type shit.
You feel me, like- niggas in the- niggas in the, um,  National Guard, they- god damn, they ain't like that.
Them niggas smoking weed and everything.
Our niggas cooling it.
Sh- what, we ain't got w- oh, they got a war on what?
Ah, we straight, nigga.
We straight, nigga.
Man, they gonna make that shit to the point you probably only can grow you two plants.
And then s- that you might- everybody might be able to only grow two plants cause it ain't gonna be any- it's  Yeah, bro.
They already l- they already letting folks grow like seven plants in certain states, bro.
It's like twenty- nine states has legalized marijuana, bro,  and out of twenty-nine, fifteen states has made that shit to the point where like, it's recreational, you see what I'm saying, so.
I-  I think niggas- I think niggas gonna smoke that shit first and foremost cause they put all the work into growing that bitch.
And for two,  the type of world we live in,  like, y- I'm'a go back to clothes right quick, like Guccis, Louis, Ferragamos, you feel me, MCM's, you feel me.
Like everybody gonna always want some type of different type of  strain of weed cause they always want some different type of clothes, you feel me.
So niggas- the money still gonna generate, you feel me.
Then niggas gonna be cross s- cos- cross straining shit, you feel me.
Yeah, so it's- it's always gonna be another one that- they got moon rock,  you feel me, like come on, now.
That shit get you high.
I-  last time I hit that shit, bro,  never again   Dang, that really-  bro, yes, bro.
You know I don't even smoke like that no more, bro.
Nigga, I hit that shit, bro.
Bruh, that shit had my heart beating so f- nigga, I thought I w- like, I had got high er- that shit- that shit- then my- that shit said thirty-three percent THC pure.
Shit, everything you- like you get the regular gas be like seventeen, you feel me, like probably like eighteen.
You feel me.
Mid- mid- I ain't gonna even lie, mid might be like ten, eleven,  and- probably ten.
That- but you know, niggas don't smoke reggie, so I ain't gonna even go to that.
But- but th- in New Orleans they still smoke reggie though.
In Alabama they still smoke reggie.
That shit still brown down there, bih.
That shit like f- three percent, so niggas be high literally for like fucking  three minutes.
Niggas be high for  three minutes, three percent, three minutes, nigga.
Like nigga, no, nigga.
And that's if- Hell nah, nigga.
Hell, I can't even take the shit,  but I ain't gonna lie though, like I'm- I'm almost to the point where like,  alright I got some f- I got something for that paperwork, you feel me.
Where I c- where I can j- I'm'a start chiefing again, you feel me.
You know, it- i- like I said, it enhances your mind at times too, you feel me, make you look at things a little different, you feel.
Yeah, the weed, yeah.
Everybody say-   everybody say they got they gas.
A nigga be smoking the shit, the fuck is this shit, bro?
You feel me, might have that gas smell and taste just like me.
I had that gas smell and taste like Froot Loop, Cinnamon Toast Crunch.
Fuck is this shit we smoking, nigga?
Cause everybody wanna have a plug in Cali, you feel me.
Oh nah, that shit-  t- I don't know.
That's- that's all about what you make it.
Like I said, it's- it's all about how you take it, you feel me.
If- if you allow that shit to enhance you where you can do something productive with it, why not?
If you just smoke that shit to smoke that shit,  and you ain't- you ain't gaining nothing from it, no benefits, that's you.
You feel me, and at the end of the day, you feel me, some people smoke cause they got pains sometime.
That shit take away the pain, you feel me.
Oh you feel that shit cause it be different.
That shit disappear.
Fucking right.
I ain't gonna even lie to you, I-  I was lifting this heavy ass TV right here, and I went down and pulled something.
I pulled a- I pulled the fuck out some shit, bro.
And at the end of the day, bro, like  I done hit the blunt, like I don't feel that shit right now.
But I- yeah.
But, yeah, I be going to some- I be going- like muscle spasm and shit.
I be going through some shit I might be walking.
And my shit- I  about to fall cause my left leg be   like w-  I don't know what it i- I n- but that's because I live- I ain't went to the doctor either though.
I let that shit- fuck that shit, you heard me.
Real sh- I- when I started doing- now the pain is so severe, but the weed got me high too so ain't no telling.
You know, weed -just- it take your mind- Yeah, oh you got to, foolie, you feel me,  you know what I mean.
I'm thirty-one but I'm twenty-seven, but I'm really twenty-four, so it-  at the end of the day, who- who know what you feel me.
It could- it could be god damn-  you see what I'm saying, could be letting them hoes, you know what I mean,  fuck with a nigga, you know what I mean,  you dig.
And we'll  that for like,  ain't no telling, bro.
I did some little-  I got all type of shit, bro.
The latest latest latest shit I did I did some shit with a nigga called RD-NAME-1.
My nigga RD-NAME-3 engineered that bitch, you feel me, and like- like that shit came out nice.
I freestyled on that bitch.
I was writing at first, but I couldn't get it together, so I just went for it, you feel me.
Matter fact we gonna play that bitch in probably like the next five ten minutes, you feel me.
See if I can get that motherfucker, you feel me.
But it's f- it's- it's my nigga RD-NAME-1 featuring me on that bitch, you feel me, and  nigga got some of that shit going with that shit.
That shit, you know what I mean,  I'm fucking with it.
Yeah.
Mm.
Alright, first and foremost- what you mea- it w- like we- like break it down a little bit more.
Like whatchu mean it's like if I had my own little shit going,  and I ha- Yeah.
How would I push my music, basically?
I feel like first thing I need to go is internet-wise,  you feel me.
Internet is everything, you feel me.
It's- it's like the golden ticket, Willy Wonka chocolate factory.
You got the internet, my nigga, it's- there's no possibilities,  you feel me.
You know, like you- you learn shit, you can make shit.
You can m- you can make your own beats.
You can record shit, you feel me, like you can watch other nigga shit.
You can watch shit overseas, China, Korea, like it's n- it's- there's no- there's- it's endless, you feel me.
So what I would do, you feel me, like  I drop my shit on  everything that got  music on it  from Spotify to Music Choice to, come on, the fucking infinity shit,  YouTubes, you feel me, SoundClick, SoundCloud, you feel me, like  every music shit, you feel me, that got s- XM Radios,  whatever the fuck they got, you feel me,  I try to drop my shit.
Even if it just one track,  you feel me, cause that one track  coulda been it got somebody attention, you see what I'm saying.
This person might not like it, but it's the- it's- this the you- this the world.
Everybody ain't gonna always like what the next person do.
That's why everybody got different fans, you feel me.
And some niggas got  the same fan that listen to ten different artists, you feel me, but might not fuck with this one artist, you feel me.
So  I drop everything on the internet first.
I drop all visuals, everything,  and just like- like- even like what- you know what I mean,  what we doing right now, you feel me, like  nigga w-  I got that- had that tripod,  you feel me.
We coulda put th- my little iPhone right there,  and- and still c- and been recording this bitch, you feel me.
So we woulda had the visual, and we would had the mother fucking, you know what I mean, a little video, you feel me, with niggas i- yeah, you feel me, you know what I mean.
So  it all depends on, you know what I mean, how you do shit, you feel me.
My situation right now is- at the end of the day, it's about  getting in contact with the right person cause Atlanta is the city of fraud.
N- dead ass serious, so you been had- you been had p- you been had put money on this website, put money on that website, p- I'm'a say  five-  five websites you put money on, two of 'em legit.
Everything else a scam.
Nig- nigga, y- you gonna take some- real, you gonna take some L's, bro.
And you might think it's- okay, Pandora just hit me,  and put your money on Pandora, and it might not even be Pandora.
You feel me, like, finesse king's shorty, you feel me, like- oh, this nigga done played me, bruh.
I had Pand- I s- look, I got Pandora to hit-  bruh, I h- got Pandora hit me on this motherfucker, foolie, and it was some nigga lying something or whatever the fuck.
And that nigga had- you know, I look at the bottom.
I look at it to try to see if it's copy written, try to look at the reviews, you know what I mean, the shit people say cause at the end of the day, all that shit let you know.
Cause motherfuckers, if they get fucked over, they gonna-  this motherfucker here that- you know what I mean, they gonna type some shit in that motherfucker, you feel.
So  you know what I mean, like  I ain't fuck with 'em though,  and it coulda- it could- it coulda been legit to be real with you, but I ain't fuck with it.
I was just like, fuck it.
I- you know, you know when the time is right,  and that's how I look at shit, you feel me.
So at the end of the day, I ain't feel like that wasn't the right time.
Yeah, you feel me.
You feel me, you just gotta see wha- you know what I mean, what the fuck?
So it's all about how you s- yeah, it's all about how you do that shit.
Hell yeah,  that's a blood- I mean, l- somebody listening.
But at the end of the day, you still- eve- some- even if it ain't the network.
Somebody listening though.
That's next though, you feel me, cause your image is everything, but your image also can be portrayed on the internet.
Niggas- niggas- I'm'a be real with you, the way that life- shit- and how shit is right now, niggas ain't- niggas going out, but niggas ain't going out.
Niggas just call they niggas to come through.
They'll take they big ass flat screen, hook up either they PS4 or the Xbox One X, whatever the fuck, you feel me, YouTube, and they gonna watch videos.
So niggas is seeing you  right then and there cause them's your videos, that's your vis- you know what I mean, your visuals.
Niggas is looking at you.
And then once niggas do that shit, then niggas might be- then- then you might hear the nigga with like, I'm coming to the city near you at such and such club, you feel me.
And niggas be like,   let me go see this nigga, bro.
Only where it's a real live show, you feel what I'm saying, but shit, nigga, nigga, I got kids.
Nigga my  three year old know how to work the mother fucking phone and tablet, nigga, what's he- you know what I mean, come on, bro.
You gotta know.
You gotta know that.
E- easily too, bro.
So it just- you know what I mean, it just depends, you feel me.
Alright.
Yeah.
I'd rather perform for them hundred million niggas that might just  accidentally click your mother fucking video, you feel me, then be out there performing for them hundred niggas that ain't gonna spread your shit to a hundred more.
Just keeping it one hundred, not saying they won't, you feel me, but it- but e- you know what I mean, like nig- nigga'll get on- nigga go see you do your show, then nigga might go home and YouTube you,  you feel me.
So that just add more, after them seeing you feel me.
But that don't necessarily mean they gonna tell a hundred more niggas,  or this nigga gonna tell a hundred more niggas.
So, you know what I mean, The street grind is strong, you feel me, but it all depend on how your street grind is.
Now I seen niggas done blew off of that street grind shit, you feel me.
I done seen niggas like, you know what I mean, you know, cause sometimes, s-  cause sometimes you gotta get out there and l- and let that one DJ cause that one DJ might have a million followers, you feel me.
So that one DJ could been and post your song on his- on his shit, and then now one million niggas been had check your shit out, you feel me.
So I'm'a be real with you and a- like you saying that, a-  when you really look at shit, it's like- it's like equal and equal.
It ru- it runs head and head, it's yin and yang, you feel me, so  it all depends on,  you know, how you do that shit, you feel me,  you know what I mean.
Yeah, you gotta fuck with the DJ.
You fuck with DJ, DJ fuck with you, the DJ gonna play your shit.
DJ gonna spin your shit, you see what I'm saying.
That how I look at that shit, you feel me.
And then once the DJ play your shit, the crowd gonna-  gonna dictate your shit, you feel me, whether or not they like the shit or they don't like that shit, you feel me.
So  it depends, you know what I mean.
Yeah, the DJ always important, and the producer though  cause a lot of songs out this bitch suck.
Being real with you.
But them niggas- you know what I mean, them niggas- them niggas got a fire ass fucking beat, just like your beats.
You shit fire than a m-  my nig- I don't even wanna say no names, you heard me, cause I ain't gonna do it like that.
But I done s- I done- I done s- I done seen- I done heard your shit on a couple of niggas' shit, and niggas really wasn't spitting shit.
But that beat was so hard, it make you just listen to the rest of the song to see what the- what the beat might do, you feel me.
You feel me, see with the beat, my dude, and niggas might come on that bitch brazy.
Like what the fuck is you saying, son?
But hey,  yeah man, but at the end of the day, you know, it is what it is, you feel me, so I know- I p- you already know, my nigga, you slay that shit.
I'm'a keep on jigging til I'm- watching motherfuckers jig.
YouTube me  RD-NAME-4 you feel me,  Facebook, you know what I mean,  the RD-NAME-4,  Twitter the RD-NAME-4, Instagram  RD-NAME-5, you feel me, like, fuck with me, my nigga, I'm out here.
One love, one blood.
Mr.
watch me mother fucking jig.
Shoutout my brother, you feel me, RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-4,  you feel me.
We gonna keep it rolling, my nigga.
One.