RD-NAME-4.
Twenty-three.
Human.
Yeah,  human race.
I- yeah d- I be putting that on job applications and everything, bruh, like  Oh god.
Yeah.
Yeah, other.
Well I-  I never really lived in Atlanta.
I been living in Georgia my whole life though.
Stone Mountain.
Yeah.
And Conyers.
Well, it's tricky.
It was good, it was a little good, was a little bad, you know.
W- for fun?
Shit, had-  shit, I had to like-  like, make fun.
You know what I'm saying, like  it wasn't really, you know what I'm saying, like too much to do in the house.
You know what I'm saying, so we go outside, maybe hoop, play football.
Sometime we play like-  we had a tennis ball or some shit, we'd play baseball.
Uh,  water gun fights with the b-  with the- you know.
Uh, all kind- I don't know, all kind of stuff, man.
Just random- like,  random fun shit.
Climbing trees.
We used to race bikes.
Yeah, we was big on that shit.
It was like niggas in other neighborhoods would come to our street tryna race us.
Yeah, man, it was- it was-  it was cool.
It was co- like I said, man, it was good and bad.
Used to beat niggas up sometimes.
Yeah.
Real, real.
Shit, sometime.
It depend.
If they not hooping, they not really-  you know, they're not doing too much.
Oh yeah, it was a lot to get into.
Yeah man, it's the worst shit to get into.
There will be some shit with it.
Then I'll wait for you to get whacked back here, bruh.
Yeah, man.
But the plot always involve a female, bruh.
If you ever peeped it.
The plot of movies always involve a female, you know?
Somehow, some way, man.
Hell yeah, man.
Nah, that's not true.
Have you ever seen Menace to Society?
That shit was sad.
O-Dog went to jail.
Caine got merked.
Uh,  Sharif got merked.
She moved to Atlanta,  but her nigga was dead,  and her other nigga was locked up.
Nigga, that's probably the reason everybody started moving to Atlanta.
Man, it's the best place to go get out of trouble.
Ah hell nah, nigga.
N- you done came to find some more shit.
We got a whole nother kind of trouble for your ass.
Mm-hm.
Everybody got 'em like they mother fucking  license plates or some shit.
I said everybody got 'em like they license plates or some shit.
Shit, I went to, uh, Mississippi before, like recently.
That was the most recent.
It was for, uh, my cousin.
He had a show.
I was, uh,  video taping that shit.
Yeah, I was camera man.
Yeah, it was paid gig.
It was our first paid, like, you know what I'm saying, event.
It was- it was- it was- good, real.
They, uh, basically- They loved us.
They fucking loved us.
They called us Hotlanta the whole night.
Hotlanta.
Hotlanta is country as hell, bruh.
They had a big ass keg.
Everybody-  everybody-  everybody was drunk off beer.
God damn,  they had this  awkward ass twerk contest.
Twerk.
It was weird as fuck.
It was a pregnant bitch smoking a cigarette  in the twerk contest, like it was- it was fucking weird, bruh.
But it was cool show though.
They had g-  good instrument players, you know what I'm saying.
They band was lit.
Yup.
Yup.
I've been to, uh,  where else?
I went to Indiana when I was like a kid.
I don't really remember that shit.
I don't know if it count.
Absolutely.
That's a once in a life time, fucking type of thing.
Yeah, bruh.
Yo, yo, he hit my cousin in the face with a  fucking snowball, bruh.
Knocked his glasses off.
That nigga run in the house crying.
We all had to go in the house cause of that shit.
I was- I was mad as fuck, bruh.
Cause, you know, we from Georgia, nigga, we don't see no snow.
Y'all got a bunch of fucking snow.
That's the first thing we wanted to do.
Fuck somebody up with a snowball, nigga.
We used to throw, uh, dirt clods and shit.
You know, uh, you remem- remember those shits?
Yeah, we- you know, you get the like clay.
That shit be like together, like a rock.
That shit just blow up.
We used to have, like them kind of fights, nigga.
Wasn't no snowball fight.
Man, you go home bruised up.
Yeah, you get fucked up.
Yeah, I remember all of that.
Good shit man.
We would kind of- we walk around the neighborhood terrorizing niggas, bruh.
I went to three high schools.
So this shit should be pretty interesting.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 like ninth grade.
Shit, I wo- I- nah, I wouldn't have-  I woulda-  it woulda been bad, bruh.
It woulda been bad.
I was- I was bad as fuck man.
Yeah I was bad as fuck, but it was like  mischievous bad, not like- Yeah, I was mischievous, n- Yeah, bruh.
Like god damn,  I- I had- well really what was happening, I kept skipping that shit.
Like we used to- I used to have to- I walked to school.
So I like-  what I'd do was, you know what I'm saying, around like-  we was on block schedule.
In the first block,  it be like kind of told us like,  lunch is starting, you know what I'm saying, in second block.
I'd be like, man fuck that.
By the time lunch start, you know what I'm saying, I could be coming back to school from fucking, you know what I'm saying, so.
I sa- I would- I take- you know what I'm saying, test bitches all through there, bruh.
We come back to school.
One day I was like, fuck it.
I had just stay home for a long ass time now, finally came back up to the school, me and my homeboy.
Was walking back up to the school,  my mom was up there trying to check me out early, bruh.
She seen my dumb ass walking up to the school.
I was-  damn.
It was a wrap, nigga.
This was- this was RD-SCHOOL-2, ninth grade.
This was like, school started August, nigga.
By o-  end of October I was going to private school.
This was a all the time thing.
I was bad as fuck, like, man.
RD-SCHOOL-5 Academy.
Yeah, bruh.
Sh- Yeah, yeah, hell yeah.
Yeah my- my- my auntie was the athletic director up there.
Yeah, plugged in instantly, so, you know, when I get up there, you know, everybody f- tryna fuck with me.
You know what I'm saying, but  my cousin went up there too,  you know what I'm saying, so.
Yeah, and that was a  cool little move, cause I was just trying to chill out at that point.
I just like damn, I- I must be bad as fuck.
It's  early in the school year, you know what I'm saying.
God damn.
It ain't take too long for me to start getting in shit up there.
I found out these niggas didn't have cameras in the school.
All these bitches love me when I first walked in.
For like-  you know what I'm saying, to take my like- what I guess, like  placement tests or whatever fuck the had going on.
They made me take a test.
So when I took that shit,  I passed the fuck out of it, but they was looking at my records like,  he's bad as hell.
He's been bad since like sixth grade, you know what I'm saying, so.
You know what I'm saying, they was just looking at that shit like, it's not like  violent shit.
It's not like, you know what I'm saying, too much disrespect or, you know what I'm saying, disobedient shit.
It's just mainly like  I'm not going to class, like  I wasn't doing that shit.
And it's like a lot of,  you know what I'm saying, like- Yeah for sure, nigga.
I came in there with eye balls on me.
Like, bruh you- you-  cause when I went to turn in my test to the principal, he was in the lunch room, bruh.
I walked in.
All the bitches in there just start clapping and standing up and shit, you now what I'm saying.
They all was looking at me.
I'm looking like, what the fuck?
I asked that nigga, I said ay, why is everybody clapping?
Cause I'm clapping too like a dumbass, you know what I'm saying.
I don't know why these hoes clap.
He's like, boy they clapping for you.
You know what I'm saying.
I was like, oh shit.
You know what I'm saying, like  I ju- I don't know, bruh.
That shit-  that shit took me to another level, bruh.
I got a fucking round of applause, bruh.
Just being that nigga.
Real deal, I- I swear to god, bruh.
I didn't understand it either, bruh.
That's it, I guess.
God damn, so,  you know what I'm saying?
Instantly when I get there, bruh  I'm trying to fuck all the cheerleaders, you know.
Yeah, I kind of guess that's what got me into all the shit,  cause I wasn't ever in class.
I-  my whole thing was, you know what I'm saying, like,  they don't got cameras, they ain't gonna know.
But every time I did some shit,  they knew.
Every fucking time I did something, they knew.
And I got in trouble for dumb shit like,  uh, uniform violation.
Like we might-  we might have chapel,  you know what I'm saying.
And we supposed to wear like a blazer with a certain tie  with a white shirt and black pants and black shoes.
I come in that bitch with the regular uniform like all the time, nigga.
And that shit mighta not even be right, like  I might not even had the right kind of shirt on for that shit, like  It just be a black shirt, like I'm trying.
I'm here.
Fuck,  you know what I'm saying, but then, I seen how they was acting.
I was like man, fuck it.
So,  I just stopped going to class cause shit, they was putting me in ISS everyday.
Every fucking day.
Nah, it was other shit.
I- that was the main thing.
I was just-  I just n-  I was a asshole too, you know.
Like I was just like- like bruh, just- I was too-  well I was too smart for my own good, you know what I'm saying, like- My grades was  fucked up until like the last two weeks of class.
Like I would just go in, bruh.
I would be good, you know what I'm saying.
Like I would be  surviving cause I pass all my tests when I s-  I show up and pass the test.
They be, how the fuck did you do this?
You ain't been here all week.
You know what I'm saying?
But other than that bruh, like I was passing all my tests and shit, bruh.
So it was like,  they couldn't really say s- too much, you know what I'm saying.
Like  I knew the shit,  you know what I'm saying, like if I did- if I was in there, I do some work.
But just a little bit,  just enough.
I ain't taking no notes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nah, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 after that, moved out here.
I had to move.
I don't- I didn't either, bruh.
And then I learned it.
I didn't want to, bruh.
These niggas is weird out here.
Niggas is fucking weird, bruh,  on everything, man.
Bruh, like okay I g- I give you a prime example, a real prime example, bruh like, my first fucking day in RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, right?
You know what I'm saying, I walk in, you know what I'm saying, I had art first class.
I was like man, I kind of like this shit already.
You know, that's right up my alley and shit.
This big ass art room,  I could tell that like the school is kind of like big on art.
So I'm like cool, you know what I'm saying.
I finna get in here and go in on these fuck boys.
Huh?
All over that.
So you know what I'm saying,  I go in there and I- uh,  these bitches wanted me to sit by them, it's like some upperclassmen bitches.
They was like  juniors and some shit.
It's my sophomore year.
But at this point, you know what I'm saying, like  due to the shit that I was in trouble for at my private school,  you know what I'm saying, like  they had suspended me like on some like  indefinite shit.
It was like  they didn't tell me how long I was suspended.
They just said don't come back to school til we sort shit out.
I was all, okay cool, you know what I'm saying.
And, uh, my mom, like she knew they was gonna end up like, expelling me, so she just withdrew me  from the school.
I just wasn't in school from like  November  to like,  fucking February.
Know what I'm saying, like I missed a whole like,  I just wasn't in school.
I was at the crib, chilling like, I-  like that was the worst shit, bruh.
This was my freshman year.
I look-  I went to two schools my freshman year.
And then like,  the start of sophomore year, I got in like, some other shit.
I did some other shit.
And, you know, shit, god damn.
God damn, after I left there,  you know what I'm saying,  that's when we came- we moved out here- well,  she transferred me out here,  like she enrolled me and shit.
But we still stayed on the east side for like two weeks.
And then we finally moved out here.
But at this point, RD-NAME-2 was at school with your ass,   and it was just me and Ma Dukes.
So then after that,  you know what I'm saying,  uh, cut through, uh,  go out- out-  we get out of art class, you know what I'm saying, and I'm- I'm-  I'm leaving and shit.
I'm walking to my next class, and it's like a big ass commotion.
So you know what I'm saying, it my-  my second go at the private school shit, you know.
When I was at RD-SCHOOL-2, if it's some big ass commotion in the crowd,  somebody getting they ass beat, right?
So I walk over there like, cool let's see what these niggas box, you know what I'm saying.
Go over there to see the fight, you know what I'm saying, I'm pushing everybody out the way to get to the front, you know what I'm saying.
I see the shit.
These niggas was dance battling, bruh.
I swear to God, bruh.
I said, man these niggas is weird as fuck.
I'm finna be late.
Like  these niggas tryna dance battle like,  the fuck out the way, like-  Shit was weird, bruh.
Yeah man, shit was weird, bruh.
D- Yeah, like, you know what I'm saying?
I was just like, oh these privileged ass nigga.
They don't wanna fight, you know what I'm saying.
I'm going to class, bruh.
So I dip,  know what I'm saying, I just seen what it was then, bruh.
I just-  I don't know.
It's some-  it's some cool people out here, and it's-  an- and it's a lot that's just n-  you know what I'm saying.
It-  the difference is like,  on the east side, bruh, it might be a fuck nigga,  and you just know.
He's a bitch ass nigga.
Like, I s- I just don't fuck with him, you know what I'm saying.
A- and the nigga you might look and s-  think he's a cool nigga from just seeing him, but you just know-  you know what I'm saying.
Out here, bruh, y-  you can't tell, bruh.
I swear to God, you can't tell.
Like all of these niggas is just like  Man, they play like- bruh, it's just hard to s- the- bruh, it's hard to like, put into perspective, bruh, how these niggas li- you got to live out here, bruh.
Yes, I do.
Shit, it- it- it- it- it varies.
Cause you know, you know what I'm saying, you might, it depend, bruh.
Some niggas be intimidated.
You can't walk around there intimidated, like, you a fucking sore thumb, like niggas see you, bruh,  you know what I'm saying.
I don't like- I- I don't walk around like that, bruh.
I mind my business, you know what I'm saying.
Everybody out there friendly.
It's just if you a bitch,  you know what I'm saying, you  just gonna know you a bitch, and you'll be treated like a bitch.
You know what I'm saying, like we just be kicking shit though like, You know what I'm saying, if you don't know how to-  you know what I'm saying, niggas come up tryna roast your ass maybe once or twice.
You gotta be able to come back with the shit, you know what I'm saying.
Oh, already know.
Other than that, bruh, we just be smoking jay, you know what I'm saying, chilling, bruh.
Kicking shit, man.
Shit,  weak ass jobs  that was paying good money.
Yeah, but shit, goddamn, my first- my first first job, bruh.
Like I started like,  legit from the bottom.
Like  my first job, worked at, uh,  it's like a  fucking custodian like service.
We used to clean like Chili's and like,  the Hard Rock Cafe and shit, like,  but that shit was like,  the worst, bruh.
Like,  TGI Fridays  is the nastiest fucking place  on the planet.
I'm not, bruh, or any other-  none of that shit, bruh.
It's all gross, bruh.
It's all gross.
I cleaned all the worst shit you could ever clean, bruh.
Women's bathrooms are nastier than nigga's bathrooms.
It be everywhere.
It be everywhere, bruh.
Aks any woman you know, bruh.
It's fucking ridiculous, bruh.
It's fucking ridiculous.
A week.
Yeah, bruh, I wasn't cut out to be a janitor.
I wasn't made for that shit.
So shit, after that-  shit, after they fired me from that shit,  god damn I started working at  the horse park up here in Conyers.
I was like in the, uh, concession stand selling chicken tenders and shit.
And flirting with white bitches to get tips in the tip jar.
So, you know what I'm saying, it was cool.
I got to do what the fuck I wanted to do.
I was smoking blunts and shit at work.
I was showing up late and high as shit like, we didn't clock out for breaks.
But they didn't pay me shit, so  it wasn't that cool.
It was like seven twenty-five.
It was- and plus the weak ass tips  that I had to flirt to get.
I had to pimp myself to get tips in that bitch.
Wasn't that sweet.
Uh, so shit, after that, bruh,  they-  we fucked around and got a new GM.
And the lady that hired me was like,  the coolest boss you could ever have.
But the-  the new dude was  a bitch.
Like I just didn't fuck with him, like,  you know what I'm saying.
I just didn't fuck with him so I- after a while,  I was like, man,  he's trying to work the fuck out of us for like seven twenty-five.
I was like, man, I'm out of here, bruh.
Then I got hired at, uh,  this warehouse up the skreet, uh, RD-WORK-4.
And then, you know what I'm saying, like  shit, they was trying to slave me like a motherfucker, bruh.
It really was-  it was cool, but it was like  god damn,  you know what I'm saying?
So,  I mean, shit, eventually, you know what I'm s- they-  they changed, uh, job sites.
They moved that shit to Tennessee.
So,  I just started like,  trapping the art, you know what I'm saying, in the meanwhile.
And now, I just had a job interview today,  so.
Shit man, it's really- it's basically-  it's basically, you know what I'm saying, it depend.
It varies, you know what I'm saying, it's real.
My own personal art, my own personal expression is- is normally abstract.
It's normally, you know what I'm saying, flowy.
It's normally  layered, you know what I'm saying, because that's kind of like the  influence of the music that I listen to.
It's kind of just how  I am as a person, you know what I'm saying.
It's like-  it's like a piece of my imagination of sorts, you know what I'm saying.
Like,  th-  the way I view certain scenes, the wor- the w- the way I interpret music, you know what I'm saying.
The way I interpret  experiences, you know what I'm saying, like,  so it always varies, but it's always kind of based around, you know what I'm saying, a flow  of, you know what I'm saying,  freedom, you know what I'm saying, kind of energetic type of shit.
S- it- real like-  it's a  trippy type of thing, you know what I'm saying.
It's like a- it-  i- i- it-  it's  like even with the meanings that be in it like the  the color and the rest- I love it, you know what I'm saying.
Like it's always a i-  like everything is done with a purpose, you know what I'm saying.
So,  yeah.
Yeah I do that.
I- I make it like  I could draw,  paint.
You know what I'm saying, so  shit I even- I'd even like- I'd- I'd- I tried molding before.
That shit is like sculpting.
That shit is tricky, but it's fun.
Hell yeah, man.
I tried to like- I've- I used to like make bongs and shit.
Yeah, hell yeah.
I don't know, man.
I just try and create.
I try not to like look at it like I just do art,  you know what I'm saying.
Try and create shit,  whatever I can create,  I'm'a do it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Get some pizza, bruh?
They're my niggas.
Yeah.
Shit.
M-  most of 'em.
Hell yeah.
All my cousin,  I fuck with all my cousins.
Too many to count.
It's j- it's a lot of them niggas, man.
Like the main ones like  on my mom's side.
It's like,  shit.
I don't know, bruh.
The- it's a lot.
Cause now niggas is having kids, bruh.
I really can't.
I can't even count no more, bruh.
I just fuck with all of 'em, you know what I'm saying.
Like I could sit out here and reel off names, but- You know a lot of my relatives low key.
Man, that shit is crazy.
I got two brothers.
No, I'm the youngest.
Mm-hm.
You know, save the best for last.
Well psychologists say that the youngest sibling is more likely to become a millionaire.
Yeah.
It's a known fact.
You could look it up.
Yeah.
Hell yeah.
You feel me.
Shit, I feel like it's me though.
Cause I really feel like  I don't know, bruh.
This shit that I'm doing, I been staying down on it so long.
I been doing this graphic design shit damn near my whole life.
You know what I'm saying, like even back to when  we had the old  fat ass computer with the booty on the back of it.
W-  With them loud ass keys, and big ass mouse, with the- with them- with the cow shit for the little pad, you know what I'm saying.
Mm-hm.
I have time to turn into a legend.
That's the next step.
That's why I fuck with it so much.
Not limited to nothing, you know what I'm saying.
was for this sample, bruh.
Um,  Random Ray.
Random Ray.
Hell yeah.
Uh, shit.
I don't know, man.
I like  too much music to just like-  I don't know, everything.
Hell yeah.
I like- um,  like smooth jazz.
I like- um,  I like,  Goldies, you know.
Goodies but oldies.
Um,  I like Michael Jackson.
I got to say that, bruh.
Like, separate, you know what I'm saying.
I fuck with Mike.
Um,  Um, I like some trap shit, you know.
I think that shit is oversaturated to an extent.
Uh, I like-  I don't know, I like kind of soulful  rap.
Like- like Krit and shit.
Not like on some like,  uh,   yeah, like, uh, crop top, Tribe Called Quest and shit like-  like, you know.
Type of shit when I say soulful.
I don't mean like like fucking k- Talib Kweli.
Yeah.
Them niggas was fire as fuck.
Like they production was- it- it was like old school music.
It was layered, you know what I'm saying, like, it's a lot of sounds in that shit.
You get something different from it.
That's kind of how I do my art y- though,  you know what I'm saying.
Not gonna get the same thing every time you look at it.
It's gonna give you a different feeling, you gonna- you know.
That shit grow with you, you know what I'm saying.
Something you could take with you.
Worth what?
Shit, I was thinking like-  I mean like, for my ultimate, like, I'm done, I can chill out, I was thinking twenty-five.
Like shit, I'll retire  at twenty-five mill.
I just make art at the crib.
Sell that shit here and there.
Just traveling and chilling  with the fam.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The fucking- the good shit.
All the- All the good shit.
Yeah.
Nope.
Some of it.
I don't really like pork,  you know what I'm saying, like I'm not big on pork.
But that bacon be calling me.
I'm not gonna sit here and lie to y'all.
Um, what else?
Mm,  not really.
I eat that shit.
I'm not gonna lie,  but that's not something I'm going for.
Yeah, I love chicken.
Chicken and like turkey sandwiches and subs and shit.
Yeah, I fuck with like-  I like sea food.
I like- um,  lowkey I like salads.
Um, Hell yeah.
Shit, I cook hot shit, where you be like, damn you made this?
Like- like my- like I give you an example.
My cousins, like sometimes, you know what I'm saying, they like kidnap me  for my artistic abilities, and they had me in Riverdale for like  fucking week, two weeks at a time.
And, you know what I'm saying, like  we'll be in there, we'll go hot box.
We'll leave out of there, and, um,  it be like  two in the morning, niggas be hungry.
I go in there and I- I be like, shit,  cool well I'm finna cook something.
They be like, whatchu gonna cook, bruh?
It's like  fucking two in the morning.
I had like these tortillas, right,  and we had  some ham, and some like, shredded cheese  some honey mustard,  we had barbecue sauce.
Nigga I made the fuck o-  we had some spinach, nigga.
Like I put all kind of shit on that,  a- and like m-  I melted it,  and put the, uh,  I put the cheese on the tortilla while it was like,  with the butter.
I did- bruh, I went in, bruh.
I wrapped that shit up.
They was just looking like, damn, bruh.
You make me one?
Yeah.
Gotta try and feel the creativity.
Bruh, you gotta-  you know what I'm saying, that's part of that creative shit.
That shit is smooth, man.
I got a little one on the way.
Thank you, brother.
Have a- I got a little girl on the way.
She'll be here in  couple weeks.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-4.
Yeah.
Shakur.
Shakur.
We don't do that queer shit.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, man.
Yeah that shit hard, bruh.
Yeah.
Shit, I- I got-  sh- she got two middle names p- you know what I'm saying, like RD-NAME-2.
Ain't got that one.
Her name means like- like-  RD-NAME-2  means, um,  firstborn daughter.
It's African for firstborn daughter.
Um,  Shakur,  know what I'm saying, niggas instantly think Tupac, but it's-  it's for- uh, i-  it means the thankful one.
And you know what I'm saying, RD-NAME-2 means man in charge.
I ain't know if niggas knew that.
Yeah.
And RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2's actually my birth stone.
Uh, you know what I'm saying, so that shit fire.
Yeah, I was about to say.
Mm dope.
Alright.
TV and movies?
Shit, I like, um,  Stranger Things.
That shit was good as fuck.
Waiting on season two.
Need to get up on that shit, brother.
I fucks with- um,  I fucks with, um,  damn, Walking Dead.
I fucks with, uh, Power.
Movies, I don't know.
I just like good movies.
That shit just gotta be good.
It don't really matter.
Oh, that shit is amazing.
I don't know, they been doing advertisement, I think.
That shit should be coming back soon.
I could look it up right now.
Oh, I never started it.
I don't really fuck with that shit.
Nah.
Huh?
Yeah, makes sense.
I heard you, nigga  I don't really fuck with that shit, man.
When I was like twelve.
Hell yeah.
I don't know.
I- man, I might be stretching it with twelve, bruh.
You hear that?
Cool.
I stopped-  I stopped watching cartoons like,  sixth grade, fifth grade.
Yep.
Them shits be evil, nigga.
I fuck with the Regular Show.
got to think about it, like now that you mention it.
d- Yeah, bruh.
It be a lot of- whole lot of   fuck shit on certain channels, like-  like certain shows, bruh.
Like mis- Mr.
Pickles.
It's too much shit, bruh.
It's too much shit out there that's similar, you know what I'm saying, like,  on that way, bruh, I don't really fuck with it.
I don't watch stuff running like that.
Nope.
I fuck with it, but I don't watch it like, you know what I'm saying.
If it's just me chilling,  like I'm not gonna just turn to Family Guy.
Somebody turn that shit on, I ain't gonna like, bruh what the fuck is this?
You know what I'm saying, but nah that ain't my- my choice.
I d- I'm'a turn to Sports Center or something like,  or Bob Ross.
Bob Ross.
Bob Ross is that nigga, man.
He paint, bruh.
He's a painter.
Yeah, bruh.
You need to check this nigga out, bruh.
For real.
Look at this shit.
Just look at this shit.
Pristine, bruh.
Yeah, like bruh, you don't have a choice.
It don't matter, you going to  participate.
And they paused it on your ass.
Yeah this shit is something else right here.
Oh.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Twelves, retro twelves.
Mm-hm.
I don't really even fuck with Jordan no more, man.
I know, man.
Like three.
I rock some ones.
I got two pair of ones.
Matter of fact,  I had three-  I have three pair of ones  and these twelves.
Yeah I fuck with the ones.
I got the metallic blue ones from back in the day.
I got the black ones with the red,  like  check.
And I got  the black and grey ones.
I got the white ones, man.
It's all about the right colorway for 'em.
Nah, I make my own clothes.
I design my own shirts.
I just buy pants.
And hard ass jackets.
Yeah, bitches like jackets.
No.
Shit just gotta look cool, bruh, you know.
Yeah, you don't gotta skimp down.
That's the trick.
You just getting down with your jacket.
Give me that one right there.
Eighty bucks?
Yeah, you did skimp down, it's a windbreaker, nigga.
Are you a brand whore?