Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, my government name is, um, RD-NAME-4.
Yeah, from- originally from Compton, California.
Been living in Atlanta for like,  uh, wanna say  seven,  eight years now,  yeah.
Yeah,  yeah.
Uh, about  maybe seven,  eight years.
I moved down here my, uh, senior year in high school because, uh, my mother got a job down here and, uh,  due to the, um,    uh, I'll say the nature of  California and  how Los Angeles is and operates.
I- I couldn't stay with my father  due to like some political situations as far as the streets was concerned.
So I couldn't stay with him,  so I-  I moved out here with my mom.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm twenty-six years old.
Yeah, I'm old as hell.
I am  of black descent.
I'm African American.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I been living here for like seven years, off and on kind of cause I been to- uh, I'm from California.
I came down here my senior year,  and, uh, I left- I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 University my freshman year to- yeah, and then, uh, yeah.
Yeah, the early wave.
Y- go Wildcats matter fact.
Go RD-SCHOOL-4 I feel you.
But, um, and then after that I, uh, was looking for another place to play.
I was playing basketball at the time.
And I end up down in Mississippi at RD-SCHOOL-1 College playing ball for Coach RD-NAME-2.
And  I stayed there for a while,  go- went back to RD-SCHOOL-3  c-  and came back to RD-SCHOOL-1 and end up graduating there.
Uh, April twenty-fourth, two thousand sixteen,  got my degree.
Yeah.
Thank you.
It was rough.
Yeah.
Um,  my degree  taught me really that,  you know,  like  not necessarily, you know, nothing matters because stuff does matter, but  as far as like, when people say, oh you- you're from this area.
You're from, you know, this  demographic, or you're from,  you know, this area.
This is  basically what's gonna be the end result as to, you know,  what you are and, you know, what you're destined to be.
And it wasn't like that for me.
I- I m-  I made myself different.
I performed different.
I operated different, and I got different results.
You know, I stayed out of the-  well I did my best to stay out of the streets, and,  you know,  be a-  you know, be- be better,  and  I persevered.
It worked out for me, and  thank god I'm p- I'm still here.
You know, it's  been many close calls, but I mean I m- I made it.
I'm out,   you know.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, the  culture is so different down here.
Um,  number one the dialect.
Like when I- I remember when my- like when I first came down here,  uh,  it was hard for me to understand people, like  cause the accent was so thick, and, you know I'm- I'm coming from California where you can-  everything you can pretty much hear straight off rip.
And in a lot of th- the Southern drawl that they have- the, oh man, hey, oh, we got to got way, we gotta.
I'm like,  what?
Ay,  what- boy, we ate, man.
We gotta-   what?
Never mind.
That's the only pa-  that's the one-  that's the one phrase I always heard, every time they got tired of talking to me, they just hit, ne- never mind, or forget it.
I- I can hear that part.
But it was so different, and then like, yeah, and being from California like, and- and- and just like down here it's just so different because like, you know,  it's- it's-  being that it's like,  you know, the South, like s-  s-  quote unquote  especially like with like the- the- the- the like- like  trees and s- like just little stuff like little- like trees and stuff like I- I never seen this many trees before-  like before I came down here.
Yeah, like  and  California I can  everything is pretty much  accessed  where I am.
Like it's- everything I need is right here.
Down here in Georgia I gotta  drive up the street to go to the gas station.
I gotta drive around the corner.
I gotta drive here and drive there.
California I can pretty much walk anywhere I wanted and then  I'm there.
You know, I mean, everything is right around my vicinity.
Everything is in my area.
So it was real different.
It was really different- really really different  s- from-  from the  living situations to dialect to even when it came to like women and stuff like that.
Like everything was different down here.
It was- Yeah.
Yeah.
Man, I am the simplest person in the world.
I like just straight up burgers,  fries,  pizza, hot do- I don't be- I don't do all the-  the- the- the- the- yeah, the fancy- the shrimp scampis and sca- I don't- I don't need all tha- I'm allergic to seafood matter fact.
I can't even eat none of that.
And like- a lot of like, since I do music sometimes we'll go out to restaurants for like meetings and stuff, and they'll like- they'll try to order for you before you get there, and so they'll  like have like a- like a seafood platter out, and I be like, this is cool, but I can't eat this.
Yeah like you coulda just gave me a burger.
I woulda been okay.
I woulda been good.
But  just simple stuff and bacon.
I feel like bacon is god's gift to this earth.
I love bacon, like  I love it.
I just- bacon makes everything good.
In California it's a restaurant  called Jack in the Box.
Jack in the Box is everywhere, but I mean like in California.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Jack in the Box has a bacon milkshake.
No.
It sounds bad, but it's good.
It is so good.
I thought about it, like when I- when I- it's like- it's like sweet, sour, and salty at the sa- it's delicious.
It's good.
Like you know how like some people put french fries in they milkshakes and stuff?
Like it's like a better version of that.
It is so good, so good.
C-  Yes.
Yes.
I was like- I thought of- like when I first heard, I was like, I got a  bacon milkshake, like what the- what Yeah, like  You gonna put- like you really gonna try- like everybody says, oh, everything tastes better with bacon on it.
So they was like, alright, we'll-  we gonna put bacon in a milkshake.
And I'm like, y'all really gonna do that.
But then I try it, and I was like, dang, that-  it- it is good.
Man, what?
Man, my fav- w- before they took it off the menu at Jack in the Box  cause it was a- right around the corner from, um,  a school that a bunch of me and my friends, we used to go hoop at.
We used to go play ball over there, and we used to walk to Jack in the Box every day  in the summer.
They had a  bacon bacon burger  that I loved.
I'm talking about I- I would- I could eat that-  I could eat that bacon bacon burger  every  day.
They have- it had bacon- they had the- the two buns, then you got the lettuce, mayonnaise.
They put tomatoes and cheese on there, but I ain't want one of that.
But they put the bacon on top of the burger, and then it had like bacon bits underneath the meat.
And it was just- ah, it was beautiful.
Yes, ah it was so good.
I used to love it, then they took it off the menu, and I was so hurt.
I was so mad.
I don't know.
I guess I guess peop- not a lot of people liked it.
I guess it was just me, but I loved it.
Oh my god, I love- I was in heaven.
Yeah, like you know how they bring- yeah like they bring back the McRib and stuff like, come on, let me get the bacon bacon burger- bacon bacon cheeseburger one more time.
That- oh my god, it was love.
I l- I was in love with that, bruh.
I used to get it every day.
I get that,  large fry, large drink,  root beer,  on point, every day  right after hooping.
We would hoop for like  eight hours,  go eat,  and go home.
Oh yeah, hooping is-  it was- it was life for- I love basketball  because  of its nature.
It's a fight.
It's a- it's-  i- i- i- it's- it's competition.
It's me versus you.
There's no- like- like- like people say  football is the most contact sport because, you know, you tackling, you actually grabbing people and all that stuff.
But they got pads  and a helmet,  you know, to- to co-  like my- my coach- my coach used to tell me- c- my coach used to tell us this all the time.
He used to say,  you have to watch what you do more than anybody else  because you don't have a helmet on your head,  so people see your face every time  you on the court, every time you outside, every time you in class.
They know who you are  by your face.
You don't have anything to hide behind.
Mm-hm.
They can't see 'em.
It's a bunch of people in the NFL with billions of dollars, millionaires and stuff, but nobody know who they are cause you can't see they face.
Yeah, you just like, dang this nigga big as hell, like it's a- you oughta be playing in the NFL, whole time, he is, you know what I'm saying.
cause they got a helmet, but every basketball player in the world, you can see they face.
You gonna recognize 'em.
You know what I mean, like  and I li- and I just love that- that competition, that feeling, just  going up against somebody, and, you know  an- a- and- and it's one sport  where it's constant action.
It's off reflexes.
It's off,  you know,    yu- you wo- w-  w-  whate- e- everything is dictated up off something else.
You bring the ball up.
The defense tries to cut this off, so you react a certain way and  it- it causes so many chain reactions and so many different possibilities.
I love basketball.
Strategic.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Exact- basketball is just spur of the moment right here.
And it's so much contact.
Basketball is the most physical sport.
We don't have no pads, no helmet, no nothing.
We out here just hitting each other every time,  and it's so physical  and just the struggle,  you know, to get where you wanna get which is the hole  and,  you know, seeing the ball go through, alright  I- I have a-  g- I'm- I'm g-  you know, it's- it's- there're no more satisfying feeling, you know what I mean.
Mm-hm.
And that must have taken the biggest toll on his body.
Yes.
He was on the NBA court for twenty years, not to mention coming up from,  you know,  playing in elementary to middle school to high school, all that.
That's so ma- and for him to go twenty years in the NBA and to dominate the way he did.
That's why Kobe's my favorite player.
I'm telling y- I feel like-  I don't know, I just- yeah, I fool- I f- I- yeah.
Jordan is- Jordan is the dope.
He was, like he was just that guy like Re- Kobe played in the NBA finals with the- I don't- I don't necessarily- no, I don't- I don't- I don't think LeBron can ever measure up with Kobe for the simple fact that he let his injuries and his situations define him  in whatever- when he- when he- when he lost in the finals,  he had, oh,  my mom was messing with my teammate and that through me off.
And he- the other final, oh I had a-  caught a cramp, and now I can't play.
Other final, oh I'm- I got hit in the head, and now this and- I mean, yeah, but  Kobe was battling a rape charge.
Kobe had a disloca- he- three dislocated fingers,  a ruptured knee, a dislocated shoulder, and a- uh, what was it- it's like his arm was like, hyperextended.
Nah, he just did i- he just wanted to win.
His- the will to win was so-  like look it, okay the two people that they talk about, Kobe and Jordan.
Jordan had the f-  it- cause like LeBron.
Oh, it was too hot in the arena,  and  I caught cramps.
Jordan had the flu.
When you have the flu, you don't have no  hundred and one temperature like when you got the fever.
Yo- you up there.
You- you- you- you could die.
He played in an NBA finals game and had,  what, forty some points?
Why?
But LeBron is the greatest.
No, man.
Fu- I can't- no, it's- no, too many excuses.
I would say, LeBron is more athletic than Jordan.
I will give him that.
He's more athletic.
His b-  his body is more  fit f-  for him to do what he wants to do on the court.
He's physically imposing.
Yeah, he's bigger, he's stronger.
Yeah, yeah, he's fa- for his size if- he is exceptionally faster than Jordan.
But  Jordan's willpower, his knowledge of the game, and just his sure strength and  all out desire to win, push a-  Jordan would whoop LeBron ass  every time.
Every time.
Every time.
He's- his will to win-  I feel like  if LeBron and Jordan- If- if- if LeBron was to play Jordan, it would make him a better basketball player because he would learn from Jordan, but I mean like if- if LeBron- if it's just one on one straight up,  I feel like Jordan's determination and his will to win  is gonna push him past LeBron  every single time.
Cause  after a while, when Jordan keep hitting them shots, LeBron gonna find some excuse,  or he gonna be like, man, you know what, this is Jordan.
Fuck it.
You know what I mean.
It's always gonna be that factor, like  Jordan is going to win- he's going- a- and that's another reason why I exp-  I respect Kobe so much, cause he the same way.
When he was  nineteen in the NBA, he going to Jordan like  nigga either you gonna win or I'm gonna win, but I guarantee you, you gonna fight for this.
I ain't giving up.
You know what I mean.
LeBron went- LeBron went against Kobe and after a while, LeBron started fading away, started guarding other players, and Kobe just kept killing.
I got that game on tape.
Yeah, that's- that's another thing, his killer instinct, he doesn't-  he d-  i- Kob- I'm rememb- uh, I think-  I think- yeah, a- you should pass the ball, you get your teammates involved, but  at a certain point,  it's  okay.
It's-  it's my time  because you're the leader of the team  everybody's supposed to look at you  not look for you to create for me so I can hit the game winner.
Like it's l- it's- ay bro, it's fourth quarter, two minutes, this is your time.
You supposed to be- wasn't- this that- and then you- and you can see it- you can see it during the game.
Like, it's crunch time.
They're down or they're up  by like a small margin,  and he makes a move, passes it off, and they looking like, I don't know what to do.
Like why you passing it to me?
Like you must want it back.
Yeah, it is, but I mean certain players are built for certain things like Oh Jordan has absolute- absolute, all around, three point,  mid-range, turn around.
He got the better jump shot, period.
But And he's just a better closer.
He just knows how to close, but- Mm-hm.
That closer.
He's that- he go- it didn't matter- uh, what was that g-  the- uh, if- pe- people don't even realize this,  the NBA finals,  nineteen ninety eight, when Jordan hit that move and crossed,  uh, Bryon Russell at the free throw line,  Jordan had like forty some points  but  I think like,  like seventeen of his points or something like that, they came from the free throw line.
He didn't hit those jumpers.
He was missing  a lot of shots.
He missed- he missed an unbelievable number of shots.
Yeah.
He missed so many shots, but when they needed it, he came down, lay up, steal,  bucket.
He- I- I don't care what's going on,  he ready to go.
Left Cleveland, then they lost in the finals in Miami.
He left Miami, went to Cleveland, won a ring.
Now they lost in Cleveland, and now he's-  they-  so will LeBron stay?
He's talking about lea-  why every time you lose, you ca- you-  can you come back and just win again?
What are you doing?
Bo- M- not- not even just Jordan, like majority of the great players that  we talk about today,  one team.
Hakeem Olajuwon, Rockets.
All Rockets.
Magic Johnson, all Lakers.
Jordan,  all Bulls.
Kobe,  all Lakers.
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, all Lakers.
Larry Bird, all Boston.
They didn't-  they stuck it out.
When they- I mean, he came from Milwaukee, but like he was- i- he- he wasn't like  a jump shipper.
Like they- he was traded.
They- he-  you don't have control over that.
It's like- LeBron signed free agency meaning, okay this is- I'm going to go here.
You ca- I'm gonna go here.
I fee- I feel that way.
I feel like, okay cause if- if it's-  okay like, okay  for instance,  you-  you want- say- say, uh, okay, you wa- you- you wanna go to-  you wanna go to a s- a s- a s-  okay, let's say a-  you wanna go to some event.
You wanna go to birthday bash in Atlanta.
You wanna go to birthday bash.
You get everything ready for birthday bash.
You got your bottles.
You got your outfit ready.
You whipping, all this.
You get to the door.
You paid your- you paid for your ticket.
But  whoever's hosting it say, oh no, we moved it.
It's not here anymore.
You did everything you were supposed to do.
It's on the other end  where- where the fallacies come-  come- come in.
That's- that has nothing to do with you.
That's not your fault.
But if you just decide  you gonna hype everybody u- ay y'all, we going to birthday bash.
We finna do this.
We finna do this.
Everybody get ready.
Everybody's on your ship.
And everybody ready to go with you, and you be like, nah I'm not going there no more.
I'm going this way.
And you're like, dang bro, we bought our tickets.
We finna- we going to birthday bash without you?
Yeah, we just gonna go to summer jam up in New- up in New York.
That's the way I feel like- like y- if it was- if it wasn't his fault, like if- if he was traded or something like that.
He- in every city he was in, he was the man.
He came out of high school the chosen one.
Went to the finals, got swept.
Oh, KD.
I- I d- I- I- I have lost a lot of respect for Kevin Durant.
I lost a lot of respect for KD  because  it was like  everybody wanted KD to win a ring.
They had every-  they- they had the tools in Oklahoma City to win it- to win a ring.
They could've beat the Warriors.
n- Yeah.
I can understand that, but- yeah he's that- Russ- Russell West- and that- and then- and that's speaks to Russell Westbrook, cause everybody said Russell Westbrook was holding back Kevin Durant.
But now that Kevin Durant's gone, and we see what Russell Westbrook's doing.
I don't know.
I b- I- True.
I just b- that's- that's what it's gonna go down in history as,  but I mean as far as Kevin Durant's legacy, when they tell his story, they gonna come to that portion  after the MVP, after,  you know, the next season, they gonna be like w-  well-  well you-  you were on the Thunder and you lost to the Warriors.
What did you do?
I went and joined the Warriors.
So you went and played for the people that beat you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You didn't wanna beat them?
You didn't wanna  get ba-  oh no, I wen- I figured if  they gonna beat me, I'm'a go  get on they-  that's like- that's like i- that's like i- when you playing pick up ball and  you go toe to toe with a team.
Yeah, come- come play with us.
And you like, yeah sure I'll p- nah, I don't wa- I don't wanna  play with you.
I wanna beat you.
You was just talking- you was just talking so much good game to me, how sorry I was and how trash I was but now you want me to play with you?
I- that- that could be a factor, but with Kevin Durant's talent- I don't know,  but I feel like- Okay but look- look, okay- yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They be- now look, they- they be shitting on 'em.
You never won a ring, you neve- you ne-  you never- you never won  a ring.
You never did this, but they can never say them niggas traded  except for -  except for Tr- except for, uh, Tracy McGrady cause he was on like four teams.
But I mean like the great players are the ones  that stuck it out, won that ring- it- it feels so much swee- it's- it's gotta feel so much better when y-  okay, it's like-  it's like- it's ki- in- in a way it's kind of like s- Kevin Durant sold out.
Because  if- i- like, okay like  let's say like this.
I'm'a g- I- like, okay like- like even with me,  like with like my situation.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
I left,  went to RD-SCHOOL-1 College to play ball.
Had I been-  I wanted to  stay at RD-SCHOOL-3 and play, but me and Coach RD-NAME-1 just wasn't getting along.
And he was having me do a bunch of stuff that I knew as  a player I shouldn't have been doing.
I'm f- six foot.
Why you got me playing at three and four in division two basketball, I mean, where everybody is they size?
And he mad at me cause six eight, six nine people snatching rebounds over me.
You know, I- I don't wanna play here, but if I woulda came out and just been like, okay I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, played ball, graduated,  I woulda felt so much better about myself.
But I had to go a different route.
I didn't wanna go to Mississippi.
I'm glad I did.
I'm glad it  matriculated for me like that cause I've gained a lot of experience.
I've done a lot, but in the sense like I would have much rather have been able to stay in RD-SCHOOL-3  and do it where I started.
Cause when I do it where I started, I got the sense of accomplishment because now there's this what if in the back of my brain like, what if I would have been able to stay?
What if I would have- so now Kevin Durant got a li-  what if I would've stayed at Oklahoma City?
Could I have won a ring?
Could I have stuck it out?
and w- yeah.
Yeah, like could I have  eventually won a ring?
Did we have the right pieces?
Because they were up three one  in the Western Conference finals.
The Clippers are always gonna be terrible because they're second LA.
Yeah.
The Lakers was terrible.
I'm a die hard Laker fan.
I root for the Lakers forever.
I love the Laker- like I'm talking about I was a Laker fan when we had Kwame Brown and Smush Parker.
I swear to God.
I was rooting for Smush Parker.
And we had Sasha Vujacic.
Oh my god.
And we had- we had Maurice Evans, like oh my god.
People don't even know who that is.
Bald number six,  Maurice Evans.
Oh my god, and we had- we had like-  we had terr- we had Von Wafer.
Oh my god.
I'm a die hard Laker fan.
I was a fan when we had Eddie Jones, Nick Van Exel, Elden Campbell.
Ah, I was a fan.
I remember, like a- my family is die hard Laker fans.
My grandmothe- when I was in the-  I was in the seventh grade,  and the Lakers were playing  Portland Trail Blazers in the finals.
I had a girlfriend,  and she was from Portland.
And  my grandmother dropped me off at the mall.
When she pick- m- she-  k- when we- she picked me up.
My girlfriend's parents were there too.
They wanted to meet my grandmother.
My grandmother s- she had the- her father had like a Portland Trail Blazer like jersey on,  and  sh- my grandma said she- they must be Trail Blazer fans.
And I say- I say, yeah, she's from- she's from Portland.
She's from Oregon.
She said if I ever see you with that girl again, don't you or he- ever- don't you or her ever come to my house again.
Our family is die hard Laker fans, like  we don't- they don't play.
They is die hard Laker fans.
W- they was playing 'em in the playoffs.
Don't ever c- don't- she said, I don't ever wanna see either one of y'all again.
And that was the one where we went to game seven.
That was the first championship run.
That was tough.
They had uh, it was, uh Damian Stoudamire.
They had, uh, Scottie Pippen, Scottie Pippen,  Rasheed Wallace, Steve Smiths.
Yup.
Steve Smith.
They should have, but we thugged it out.
The Lakers.
They- we- we beat 'em in seven.
Shaq and Kobe.
The lob.
The famous lob.
Everybody l- ay, yes.
Yes, the famous lob, Kobe's famous lob, the crossover, threw it up, Shaq jammed that joint in.
They was not.
They was definitely beefing.
It was.
Soon as that- I'm talking about like- and we were at a party  when  they were playing that game, and  the second  that  Shaq d-  dunked the ball in,  the entire house went crazy, and it- it- it- it- it almost turned into fight cause  all the Laker fans just cussing at the Portland Trail- ah, bitch ass- ha!
fuck y'all ain't going no, you suck.
Y'all wet.
They like- they just sitting there, and you know how when somebody get to talking trash for about a good ten minutes, you like alright bro, shut up.
It's time- look, you gonna have to be quiet now.
Yeah.
And I already told you, my family die hard Laker fans.
They ready to go to blows.
They ain't- they don't care.
We was- we was ready.
Yeah, it was bad.
It- I do video games  somewhat.
I like to play the sports game like Madden two K.
I'm really- I'm hearing some good things that live is coming out with some good stuff.
And I'm- I'm- I'm hoping- I'm really hoping that it's good because the last lives was- was garbage.
Yeah, I was- I was doing the same thing.
I was.
I was going stupid hard for live.
Oh my god.
And then- but like when- it j- two K just took off.
So I'm a two K fan.
I love the story modes.
Oh my god, story modes is amazing.
And then-  but live is supposed to be doing some good stuff this year, so I'm really hoping that they-  they come through.
Uh, I do like- like  role playing games and stuff like-  like the- the n- Yeah, the- those is nice.
I likes those.
And I like- I do like like Call of Duty and stuff.
Like I play it every now and then.
I ain't as serious  as a lot of people are.
Yeah.
They all, you ain't tryna see me no Call of Duty.
Like, I'm not.
Like I- I- I don't- I don't play like that, like it's not- it's not that big to me.
But I mean, we can play.
We can play, but I mean, I'm s- Oh look at this kill spree.
I don't know what that is.
I don't- I don't care.
It's not my- it's not my lane.
I really don't care.
You know, ay, we- ay, yeah good for you.
Three claps for you, but, uh,  okay.
They be- people are s- video games ruin relationships.
I'm talking about like I had-  it was a girl when I was in-  I was in Mississippi.
Real- I was in Mississippi.
Oh my god, that girl was fine.
She was fine.
We got cool after I graduated, but mm-mm.
I don't- I don't wanna talk to her   cause of the video games.
Oh my god,  the Cali women.
Atlanta women-  Atlanta women- if you talk a good enough game to 'em,  they'll give you a chance.
Cali women, you got-  it's a prerequisite.
It's like a-  like when you taking your driving test, now are you- did you check your mirrors?
Did you  do this, did you honk i- did your- lights on?
Do you have a car?
Okay.
Do you got a job?
Okay.
How much money you got in your pocket?
Okay.
What your shoes look like?
Are they dirty?
Okay.
Fit- lemme see your cock-  okay, no.
It your hair cut?
You be like,  bruh.
I just wanted to see if you wanna get some ice cream.
Like you tryna give me the whole run down like I'm about to meet your dad today.
I think Atlanta women i- yeah, like Atlanta women- I think Atlanta women, because of the Southern hospitality, like they're more- the- they're more apt to see growth.
Like they'll- like if you are trying, and they know like, okay, well he got potential,  they'll work with you.
California, if you ain't got it then, don't even talk to me.
Why are you here?
And you be like, bruh,  hold on, man, like come on, man.
But they'll flirt with you all day, and they g- ah yeah,  you- and you be like, okay, so yeah what's u- ah s- nuh-uh,  no no no boo boo.
You be like, damn bro, like you- you was just- come on.
I c-  Yeah, like- Oh they- oh yeah, cause it's like- cause it's so flooded out there like everybody is something out there.
Everybody's a actor or a- b- a  producer or singer, songwriter,  poet, author,  ar- artist or-  everybody's something.
A manager at Target, you know,  just anything.
Nah, you- you g-  str- straight up.
And California women like-  and it's another thing that was different down here.
Like  I had to get used to like the-  like- like in high school, like the talking to you phase, or talking to each other.
California, we c- straight up, what's up?
I like you.
You like me.
What's going on?
Like  alright, we- you- you with it?
Alright bet.
I'm with it.
And we dating.
Well that's it.
We- that's my girl.
And then like if we ain't feeling it, alright, we breaking up.
I ain't feeling it no more.
We still friends.
We still cool.
We not- nah, we ain't  talking.
We talked at the- start dating.
That's when we talking.
And then down here, like  people be all loved up and  damn near making love in the cafeteria, tonguing each other down.
You be like, oh that's your girlfriend?
Nah, we just talking.
You what?
Y'all was just- what?
Whatchu mean?
Oh god, like  What the-  what?
I was like, wait that's not your girlfriend?
No, like- My gir- I had it- I had a girlfriend in California.
I met her,  I was in basketball practice.
And  pra- it w-  practice got over with  I went showered,  and we was just  hanging out, just kicking it.
She was fine as a motherfucker too.
And she was just- we just kicking it.
She  thick as a muh, so I'm,  you know, tryna, you know, grab a little something, you know, act a little fool and whatever.
She told me she liked me.
I was like, shit I like you too homie and what's up?
Next day,  Ashley your girlfriend?
Yup.
Yup.
Then they go to Ashley.
Is RD-NAME-1 your boyfriend?
Yup.
Yup.
Yup.
And then  me and Ashley ended up- we e- we end up s-  you know, w- we- we didn't like- we fell off a little bit, but  we still cool.
I mean, like, even afterwards.
Like I moved down here.
She would still call me.
Hey, what's going on?
How you been?
I had one real bad breakup in California- well, a few.
I had one real real bad one.
I was at the same school, I was talking to this girl RD-NAME-3.
And, uh,  that was when the whole gang  situation kind of happened with me, like I was hanging ar- I- everybody on the basketball team was neighborhood RD-NAME-2.
So everybody assume because I'm hanging with them all the time, they assume I'm a Blood too.
So I- uh,  I'm dating RD-NAME-3,  and one day, she just-  just  out of nowhere, one day she just came up  purple fingernail polish,  purple rag around her head,  purple hair, purple eyeshadow.
I'm like, dang what's up?
You from Grape Street?
She's like, yeah I'm Grape Street.
I'm little something some some, what's up cuz?
I'm like-  I'm like what the- hold on, bruh.
This ain't the RD-NAME-3 I know.
And so like we kind of like had like a rocky road after that.
Like she be like, oh you always aks me about this purple, cause you a Blood, and you j- a slob ass.
And I'm like, yo calm down with that slob word, and I'm not even a Blood.
But you- you chilly, like you tripping.
Yeah.
And then I ended up actually becoming like a RD-NAME-1 like because- because it's certain situations in California I just couldn't avoid.
And so it just- and she-  you a slob.
You a- we started going at it, and next thing you know, I was like, you know what, fuck it.
I ain't f- get away from me, like stop talk- we- we done.
We broke up.
She said, well if you break up with me,  it's gonna be hell for you.
And I was like, well bring it on.
I don't give-  fuck it.
Man, I'm walking to school.
I did not know.
I don't go- I swear to god.
Man, I- uh,  I'm walking to s- practice.
I'm walking to practice one day.
I left my granny crib.
I hear, ay cuz,  ay cuz.
I'm like, hold on, man.
What the-  Ay, you the nigga that dated RD-NAME-3 cuz?
You dated RD-NAME-3?
I'm like, aw, nigga, come one.
Yeah they came for me.
So they- they come.
It's one- it's one real,  real tall dark skinned dude.
He got a wife beater on, black pants, and he got like these little braids.
N- you dated RD-NAME-3 cuz?
On Grape Street Watts  Crip, you finna feel this shit.
And I'm like, ah.
Nigga, I took off running.
As I ran- cause it was about three of 'em already.
I was already a good distance away.
You ain't always gotta be that nigga- I'll fight anybody.
I'm smart.
I pick my battles.
So I took off.
Like these niggas ain't finna get me today.
And I ain't even know if they had guns or not, so I just took off.
So I took off,  hopped a couple fences.
They caught me around the corner.
It was about seven of them niggas.
They beat the- they beat the living sh- oh no, oh no, they caught me.
They had it planned.
So I was at one end.
I was in the- I was like in the end of the street.
The dude was in the middle of the street, so when I ran around the corner, hopped the fence, they was waiting on the other side.
They- they knew I was coming.
So they got me.
Then like  I'm going- I'm- they beat the hell out of me, but some- it was a couple of 'em that got it.
I ain't going down,  you know, j- I ain't just going out.
Somebody coming with me.
So I got somebod- couple of 'em was mad that they came that day  to-  So I got them.
Then like a couple days later I'm leaving practice.
I'm with my- uh, one of my friends, my partner RD-NAME-1.
And we just kicking it.
Me and RD-NAME-2 going up the street.
I hear, ay cuz.
Ay, ay, that's RD-NAME-3- ay, ay cuz.
I'm like, come on, man, not agai- y'all done already jumped- come on, man.
And I n- and that's when it-  ha- I heard the  I was like, oh my god, they shooting.
I take off running.
These niggas is shooting at us cause I broke up with this girl.
Then I got away.
Me and RD-NAME-1 got away clean.
Next day- Like that's what I'm tryna figure, like is it really that deep?
Like it can't be that deep.
What did she tell you I did to her?
Like   So then, god damn, like the next day, she come up to me, I'm sorry.
I didn't know it would get like that.
I didn't know they was g- whatchu- you what?
Stop- what?
I was so mad.
I was heartbroken.
Like oh c- I was like, this bitch just really just  had these niggas try to kill me, and then came up and apo- I didn't know they was gonna try to kill you.
I thought they was just gonna jump you.
Like, bitch.
What the fuck?
She was, and then we broke up,  and  she said, you gonna pay for this.
I did.
Well that's one of the reasons we broke up cause she kept- she kept- she just kept- she wouldn't stop.
Yeah, she would always s- be like  on like the disrespectful shit.
And I be like, uh, I ain't tryna hear that.
I ain't-  whatever.
I didn't care that she was a Crip.
I didn't- cause I wasn't even like s- I wa- I was never tryna gang bang in the first place.
So I- ain't matter I was a RD-NAME-1.
I was just chilling.
And she just- she just like, alright-  alright it's-  d- ar- you talking-  you- you talking way too much of this shit.
She was fine.
I swear to God she was bad.
She was like dark skin too.
Ooh, she was   dark skin.
She had a fat ass too.
And then what's crazy, I got a friend from Grape Street.
One of my partners, like he-  and he called me  after the shit happened,  like after they shot at me.
He called, was like,  ay,  you good?
And I was like, ay man, I'm straight.
He was like, man I heard they-  they- my- my-  my peoples was all- I was like, yeah man, y'all peoples on real some bullshit.
And he like, ay bro don't even worry about it.
I got you.
I b- I'm'a take care of it.
I got you good.
So he called, and they ta- I guess that's how she heard about the shit.
But  that nigga came- he came and looked out for me and everything.
He was like, you ain't gotta worry about shit.
You ever come- you ever come around here again, tell 'em you with me, and you good.
But I was like, Ah, g- Soulja Boy be claiming he from Fruit Town Piru.
That's Blood.
Fruit Town is, uh,  all that's f-  I think that's four line  four line Piru, all them four- all that four hundred block I think.
But  that shit is crazy.
I would never- Nah, it was- I was-  man,  I was so happy when I came down here.
Like cause I got like- in California, the color stuff is-  is very real.
You cannot-  you can't.
No.
No.
Why you got all that red on?
Why you got that blue on?
What- and it's not even just red or blue because certain hoods got certain colors, like-  like, uh,  like even like- like- like look at Snoop Dogg.
Snoop Dogg is from Rollin Twenty Crip.
Rollin Twenty Crip colors is black and gold.
That's why, like with his tea- like you see his little football team, the Pomona Steelers, they got the black and gold.
So you come out wearing black and gold, and they- ay nigga, what you from Twenties or something?
Like  so you gotta know where you at Exactly.
You gotta know where you at.
You gotta know who you gonna be around and what you can wear and what you can't wear.
So c- I come down here,  niggas is wearing  everything, and I'm like,  oh shit.
I can wear what the hell I want to.
Man, I went to the mall.
I bought st-  I bought every  pair of  chucks, every hat I bought every color.
I was the most colorful nigga in high school.
I cou- cause- just cause I could.
Like I was free.
Wasn't nobody gonna aks me nothing.
It was crazy, like- and then like- and then in- in like the gangs down here like, I had never heard of GDs.
I had never heard of Vice Lords until I got down here.
Yeah, cause we ain't- they ain't- Mm-mm.
So I had never heard of that cause like where w- I'm- where I- they-  they colors, like GDs is black and Vice Lords are white.
Where I come from  black and white is neutral.
That mean you don't do nothing.
You don't gang bang.
Yeah, you don't do nothing.
You- that's all we could wear was black and w- that's the- the safest colors to wear was black and white cause you-  ya- I'm nothing.
Look,  white T-shirt.
I don't do nothing.
Chill out on me.
You know what I mean.
Like we don't- I don't do nothing.
I'm- I'm cool.
I graduated  from stanking ass RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Oh man.
RD-SCHOOL-3 was terrible.
And it w- it- I didn't like it- because people thought they was so hard.
Like it was like- like I came out here, we got the nice house and all this cause, you know, cost of living so high in California, we could afford a nice house down here.
So we got the nice house.
Yeah, so I'm like, bruh we living in these good houses, like why is y'all acting like this?
And they like, oh now- well, now- I'm from the- like nigga, we got good- you got a two story house.
Like what the fuck you acting a fool for, my nigga.
Chill out.
Yeah,  I definitely think they would.
They definitely would.
And so I come into RD-SCHOOL-3, and  everybody acting like they  thugs and stuff.
I'm like, nigga your school is indoors.
Like what the f-  they not that afraid of you.
Everything in California's outdoors.
Gated school- your school has to be gated.
Yeah.
School gotta be gated.
Everything gotta be outdoors.
Cause if it's indoors, it's- they said it's like too much with like- like- like they-  they had lockers.
We couldn't have lockers.
You could have backpacks down here.
You can't have no backpacks.
Like, slick.
You gonna have- I guarantee, about every school in Los Angeles Unified School District has at least f-  maybe  ten security guards-  about ten security guards,  can't have lockers.
Uh, your backpack has to be either clear or mesh.
You can't have no colored- none of that.
And generally you gonna ha- you probably gonna have a metal detector you gotta go through Yup, you gotta go through that.
Do- and then the- and then if they-  they hear anything about drugs or anything, they gonna bring them dogs out.
They gonna bring them dogs out.
They will pull you outta class quick and put you on the floor.
Oh yeah, I h- s- I've heard.
Yup.