Uh,   the-  I was named  by the government RD-NAME-3.
Um, but I've renamed myself  RD-NAME-3  as my stage name.
Uh,  the rebirth,  the resurrection.
Thanks, man.
Uh, Black, Asian, and Italian.
Uh, eighty-seven.
Washington DC.
Uh, kind of grew up on the south side,  um, pretty much all over.
But, uh, for a period of time, I lived out in, uh,  Northern Virginia.
That's where I mainly went to school,  you know.
I've been here almost five no-  months now.
Uh,  yeah, so to speak, five months.
Uh, I've lived in Wilmington, Delaware.
Uh, I've lived in Philadelphia.
Um, lived in Virginia.
Um,    think- I lived in New York for a while  in Brooklyn  for about two years.
And found my way down to Atlanta.
Highest level of education is high school.
Yeah.
Uh, I'm a professional musician  and or songwriter and producer.
Uh, um, my mom and dad both  from Washington DC.
Uh, my mom was- worked for the government,  uh,  consultant- and consulting firms, uh, most of her life  dealing with, uh,  contracts,  high level contracts.
I think she was like a grade thirteen or something like that, whatever that means.
Uh, my dad,  he's been a, uh,  pastor  preacher bishop  all of his life, so he's been preaching.
Um, and he's- he was also a former musician songwriter and producer as well  prior to him- him dying,  uh, last year.
Yeah, yeah, man.
Yeah, I'm a PK to the fullest- to the fullest extent.
Yeah, I have, uh,  a older brother by the name of RD-NAME-7  Junior.
Uh, he's a-  thirty-one  I believe.
No,  I take that back.
RD-NAME-2's three years older than me.
He's thirty-four.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Um, it's not really a relationship.
Uh, we kind of saw each other growing up  in and out.
So, uh, we pretty much kind of saw each other on weekends for a while.
My father wasn't really around to be honest.
Yeah.
So, you know, but that's m- that's my guy, man.
It's- it's like, you know we're brothers.
It's a natural-  it's a natural chemistry, man.
So it's like a relationship that'll never die,  you know.
Um, I grew up a mama's boy.
Um, as-  but as, you know, she kept me in church.
Uh, my mom  was a single parent f- so for a long time, all I knew was my mom.
My mom was my mom and my dad,  you know.
Know what I'm saying, she's a very strong woman.
Um,  she- she raised me I feel like the best way she could  at the time.
I don't know exactly what age she had me at but she did have me at a young age.
Um,  you know, so  now pretty much, I grew up,  like I said, she did whatever she had to do to put food on the table, nothing illegal,  you know.
But she just worked really really hard.
So my work ethic definitely comes from my mom.
Um, you know, the way I treat a woman, things of that nature,  you know, I g-  I-  those are the little nuggets I got from my mom coming up.
So we're pretty close to answer your question.
Um, now we're not as close,  you know, just because, you know,  of age maybe,  you know, but,  you know.
Yeah, my mom's mom, uh, I have a relationship.
Uh, my dad's mom, I definitely had a relationship prior to her passing as well.
I actually saw my grandmother and my aunt and uncles more than I actually saw my dad, which was kind of weird.
But the family didn't love me any less  because my dad wasn't around.
They actually kind of embraced me more,  you know, so- so, yeah.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Um, Considering  me and my brother grew up in two different households, um, I can't really answer that question, you know, effectively, you know.
But to my knowledge, you know, when we were around each other, we pretty much did the same things, so  when one got in trouble, we all got in trouble, you know.
Um,  I mean, we were all pretty close coming up,  um,  I was- funny thing is, I was probably more closer to my  dad's side of the family than I was my mom's side, you know, but-  but, you know,  um,  you know,  we allow life to be life, you know,  hm,  and I just- I pretty much dealt with wha- what was given to me.
I moved around a lot as a kid, so  we were kind of in and out of seeing each other, but  I try to stay as consistent as possible, you know.
Cool.
Um, funny thing is  every neighborhood I've ever lived, I never went to the local school.
I always went to the school in like  the better district so to speak.
Um,  to what-  to what extent I don't know how,  maybe my mom was using like her work address so I could go to school in a better neighborhood.
You know, like we would live in DC but I would go to school in Virginia.
You know, so, you know what I'm saying, like it was one of those type of situations, like she had to get up at five forty-five.
I had to get up at five forty-five.
You know, to get to school, but it was worth it.
I understand why she did what she did, you know, considering the times we live in today.
Probably about a forty-five minute drive.
Forty-five minutes to an hour, depending on traffic at the time, you know.
Yeah.
Nah, I mean I took a bus at one point.
It was very brief, but I took the bus for- yeah, the actual school bus.
Yeah, yeah, I took the school bus for a brief minute.
You know, when we moved back to Maryland, closer to the middle school, high school days is when I, uh, you know, really got into the bus.
But  all of elementary, you know, she would drop me off, kiss and ride, you know, that type of thing.
I was always the- the mischievous child on the bus,  always had to be singing, always had to be heard, always had to be in the girl's face, you know what I'm saying.
That was me coming up, man.
Yeah.
Yeah, I- I didn't become a introvert until I got older, you know what I'm saying, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, school was cool, man.
Um,  what- what- what age we talking?
Mm.
Two of the best years of my life, mm.
Absolutely.
Um, middle school high school is kind of when I came into who I was.
Um, I discovered music.
Um, I always grew up in church, grew up in music.
You know, everybody in my family pl-  played  preached  or they sung.
So I was always around music,  um, but I didn't really get into music until maybe  seventh, eighth grade, uh, right before middle school, um, you know, middle school high school wave.
Um, there was a teacher by the name of Mr.
RD-NAME-2 I'll never forget.
Yeah,  Mr.
RD-NAME-2, uh, RD-SCHOOL-4, now RD-SCHOOL-4  in- uh, off RD-ADDRESS-3 Road in  Camp Springs, Maryland  I believe.
Um,  He-  I- I don't know what it was about him, but he may s-  maybe saw something in me at a very  young age.
Because I would  come t-  I promise you I will come to cl-  come to school, go to home room.
Right after home room, I was in his class all day.
I would literally skip class.
Um, I would  do everything  possible to just stay in his class all day til-  til it became a point where I was getting put out of my  scheduled classes,  and they would send me  to Mr.
RD-NAME-2 because they knew that was the only place I would work, you know, or do- do what I had to do because I was so geek to play music at the time.
So he had a little beat up drum set in the, um, band room-  in- uh, in the band closet.
I used to go in there,  uh, put pieces together.
It-  it maybe like a  actual bass drum that you play in the marching band, and he'd have a drum pedal.
It might be a piece of a high hat stand.
Um,  if not,  I was using two cymbals,  and I would just put 'em on like,  you know, cymbal stands, little flimsy cheap ass cymbal stands.
This little  drum throne would be broke as fuck.
The snare would be broke as fuck.
And I would just sit there and make-  make rhythms.
Um, you know what I'm saying, to the point where he put me in the talent show.
And I- I vaguely remember it,  but,  you know, the few middle school friends I have talked to about it, they've-  they've reminded me.
They never forget the story, so it must have been like a epic moment for me, you know what I'm saying, at the time.
And from there I just kind of kept that MO through high school.
And I did the same thing in high school.
I- um, I f-  I- what is my- I- forgot my high school, uh,  music teacher's name,  you know what I'm saying.
But  I did the same thing, man.
Like  the marching band would be in there practicing  choral and orchestra music,  and I'm sitting in there.
I'm the only nigga playing the piano.
At this time I discovered I wanted to play piano,  you know what I'm saying.
And then  just started vibing out, man, and just  I would sit there and just play.
I knew I wasn't gonna play their actual concert,  but I would just sit there and learn music and  come up with different melodies and things.
Man, it just kind of stuck with me, um,  out of high school, and I  realized I could make honest money doing it, man.
I been doing it ever since.
I played baseball for a minute.
I played basketball for a minute,  but when I realized, those w-  though were-  though  sports was the way out.
At m- at my- at my time of school, sports was the way out the hood.
I wanted to be different.
Yeah, I didn't wanna catch a football, didn't wanna shoot a basketball to get out.
That was too typical.
That was too easy.
Know what I'm saying, so  at that point I started  just doing my own thing.
I- I left home when I was fifteen,  never came back,  never.
Um, yeah.
So that's a story in itself, you know what I'm saying.
But I got tired of just moving around and being unstable.
I kind of grew up in an unstable household, you know,  from the darker side of things, you know.
But  my mo- again, my mother did  what she had to do,  and I don't  regret anything I went through  to get to where I am,  you know what I'm saying,  so.
My mother taught me how to survive.
If I di- if I didn't get anything from her,  I learned how to survive.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Mm.
I didn't really have- uh, my least favorite teacher was probably,  hm,  uh, it was a s- ah,  least favorite subject was probably  math or science.
Yeah, man, history.
I- I just hated-  I didn't really enjoy school.
I felt like the things in school were- not to be like a Black Panther or anything, but I felt like the knowledge that they was giving us was man-  you know, was- was written by man, but it  technically wasn't-  I wanted to know more,  you know what I'm saying.
And- and I would aks questions and challenge the teacher,  and, you know,  it would get me put out most times, you know.
But in actuality as I got older I realized, challenging was just them not  knowing-  knowing how to respond to a  fifteen year old kid, you know, aksing 'em real deep ass questions, you know, so.
Yeah, they didn't understand it, so instead of trying to  understand it at the time, they just put me out of class, you know.
Somehow I always ended up in the music room,  you know what I'm saying, and never looked back.
Yeah, music's my life.
Yeah.
Um, nah, I'm pretty much a loner, man.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, man.
Absolutely,  to the fullest extent.
That w- that would be me- that would be I.
Uh,  in Atlanta?
Uh, yeah I got a few friends that come through, you know, artists that I deal with, um, you know,  periodically.
You know, they'll- they'll come through, and  I play 'em beats and stuff, you know.
We'll f- try to figure some things out, come up with new concepts.
Uh,  hm,  I watch a lot of YouTube.
Um, I try to stay current with what's going on in the music industry.
Um, play off of those situations and try to come up with different concepts when I say- when I mean- when I say, uh,  playing-  playing off of those situations, I'm taking, you know,  relevant situations and putting 'em into a music from-  ah,  presenting them in a musical form with musical aspect.
Excuse me.
RD-WORK-3, uh, off of RD-ADDRESS-3 and RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
Um,  it's- it's known as DC's Black Rodeo Drive.
Um, it's  like the more prominent area where- yeah.
Nah, I mean, it was okay, you know what I'm saying.
Um,  i- i-  no,  I take that back.
A- yes, my first job.
That was my second job.
My first job was sweeping hair in a- in RD-WORK-2 Barber Shop  RD-ADDRESS-3, Maryland.
RD-NAME-2 Yeah, man, it was- I mean, for me at the time, man, I'm- I'm fifteen.
Nah, I'm like fourteen.
Yeah, you know what I'm saying, like thirteen, fourteen.
It's sweeping hair, but I'm walking out of there with a free haircut and maybe fifty bucks in my pocket on a good day.
You know, and that's if- if I,  you know, do everybody's station, clean it up, sweep.
I'm constantly, you know what I'm saying, and then  the time in between is mine, so I'm in the back playing PlayStation.
I'm- you know, I'm running to the store, you know what I'm saying, for the barbers, grabbing food and shit, but I get to keep the change, you know what I'm saying.
The change might be seven, eight bucks.
That shit added up.
So, you know, I'm leaving with maybe sixty, seventy bucks on the regular.
Yeah, man.
And I- and I- and I actually met a lot of people w- industry-wise that I just didn't know who they were at the time because I was so young.
Now that-  you know what I'm saying.
But I used to see all types of people come through there, you know what I'm saying, like just rappers, artists and all types of shit.
It was a very prominent barber shop at the time, and I believe it's still in existence.
So shouts out to RD-NAME-2.
You know what I'm saying, RD-WORK-2 Barber Shop, Oxon Hill, Maryland.
Go- y'all go check it out, man.
Google 'em.
They're dope.
Mm, alright.
Alright.
Mm.
I see what you doing.
Mm.
Um, yeah, not really,  you know what I'm saying, but w-  w- from what I've heard, and being a huge- coming from that- that Jay-Z era, I can honestly say I grew up in that-  that Roc-A-Fella day.
Like I was there.
I wasn't there physically, but I was there sonically, meaning like I was- I was a early fan.
I been fucking with Jay-Z from day one.
Um,  you know what I'm saying, like, mm, yeah.
Yeah.
It's- it's top three.
Absolutely.
Um, and I say this for various reasons.
One, his lyrical content.
When you break it down, he's speaking real shit,  like real shit.
You know what I'm saying, he's not a gimmick rapper.
He's very organic with his shit.
Secondly, you know what I'm saying, from his business aspect and how he moves as a businessman is fucking impeccable.
Thirdly, his fucking music catalog.
You know what I'm saying, his catalog is crazy, um,  like,  beyond crazy.
You know what I'm saying, that it's nobody really- not too many niggas really fucking with him at all.
You know what I'm saying, so.
Nah.
I'm- I'm'a- I'm'a-  I'm'a-  I fell- I met Kendrick meaning sonically.
You know what I'm saying, I- I heard his music for the first time.
Um,  first record I heard was Section Eighty, Rigamortus, um,  and never looked back.
Kendrick to me is one of the most prolific poets.
He's under-  he's underrated  as a- as a artist, man.
Like he- I feel like his shine is-  hi- he got  too mu- he has a lot to do.
He's gonna be around for- he's definitely one of the ones, man.
Kendrick is-  he's just phenomenal, man, like- Yes.
Lyrically?
Mm.
Nah.
That's a great discussion.
That's like a Biggie and Tupac.
So i- it really depends on what you like musically.
You know what I'm saying, cause Drake can get gritty.
Drake early shit,  killing.
You Can Thank Me Now,  killing.
Yeah.
It's his hardest album  because that wa- no- yeah.
It was his hardest-  that one and the r- and the record he did with, uh, Schoolboy Q.
I forgot which- uh, what the name of it, but the- yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, like those two records to me are his dopest records, man.
Like, yeah.
I like Bitch Don't Kill My Vibe and, you know, Backseat Freestyle and all that shit, man.
Like those records are hard too.
Yeah, my f- my favorite record- Kendrick's records,  top two would be Rigamortus and  Black Boy Fly.
And I probably would put Black Boy Fly over Rigamortus because I'm a actual musician,  you know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Hell yeah.
Hell yeah.
That rhetoric's crazy.
Mm.
Mm.
Depends on- it's gonna sound really weird, and, uh, it's not a cocky statement, but it depends on the time of-  the time of day,  you know, what's going on.
Um, sometimes I  can go for the businesswoman, the-  you know, the very  laid back  but fine as hell,  but she covering it all up,  you know what I'm saying, but you know what it is.
You know what I'm saying, like I- I definitely could deal with that type.
But every now and then,  you know, men want a whore,  you know what I'm saying, a pretty whore.
You know what I'm saying, like I'm not- I'm not savage.
You know, I wouldn't  just stick my dick in anything- are we allowed to say dick on here?
You're sure we can say dick on here?
Alright, cool pause.
You know what I'm saying, but,  you know, that's-  that's my preferred, you know, I- I think I prefer a nice  well rounded artsy type of girl.
You know what I'm saying, I like artsy girls, real nerdy but real fine.
You know what I'm saying, that's just me.
Yeah.
I like piercings, tattoos, you know, going to the gym,  you know.
Mm-hm.
SZA.
SZA.
Yeah, SZA, Kehlani.
Um,  who else?
Probably f- Yeah.
Yeah, hell yeah, absolutely.
Um, fucking Mila J, fucking J-  Jhene Aiko- Aiko, Aiko.
I don't wanna fuck her name up.
You know, that's- Nah.
I'm cool like- nah, far from it.
I'm cool- I'm cool with a SZA.
I'm cool with a- with a Jhene Aiko, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm just cool with something real laid back, real chill in the cut.
I don't need to be- it's- sometimes it's better to be  seen and not heard.
Big booties, you know what I'm saying, that's more the perspective of being heard.
But just beauty and- and brains and intelligence and making the right moves, that's being seen, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Know what I'm saying, but- Uh, I'm- yeah, man, I'm- I'm always into, uh, uh, shit like The Boondocks.
I love The Boondocks, man.
It's- it's just classic shit to me.
Um, visually that was really taking shit a step further, um, especially when they could  implement the musical aspect  of it, you know what I'm saying, ay ay shouts out to Boondocks and the creators, man.
I wish y'all would come back.
You know what I'm saying, like yo, I'll even throw y'all beats for free.
Like you can p- I'll go on the record saying that real shit, you know what I'm saying, just to be a part of that movement, man.
Like You know what I'm saying, like, you know, so my- you know, I'm in- I l- I just love movies, man.
I love  theatrical performances.
I love things where it-  it takes the typical actor and what we would perceive them as visually as, you know, I like them to step outside they comfort zone.
One of my favorite actors, Will Smith, you know what I'm saying, Denzel Washington.
Um, like these niggas are coming up.
Who- who else?
It's-  it's somebody else I'm not thinking of that- and they are a entertainer.
They're actually a rapper, but they're dope as fuck.
Common,  he's dope.
Yeah, you know what I'm saying, it's, uh, Jamie Foxx, probably the dopest.
Yeah,  absolutely.
He's definitely- he's the new- he- to me he's the modern day Denzel.
He's proven it on several levels.
He's proven it.
Yeah, but when I say that, I mean the- put him in that same category, you know what I'm saying, of the respect level that Denzel has.
Yeah, yeah, all day.
He has- he's probably superseded Denzel's numbers  cause in my opinion, he's probably been in more movies.
Mm-hm.
So, you know what I'm saying, like  I like thing- I like colors, man.
I like-  I like  singing things, cartoons, like the minions, and- and Gru and all that shit, man.
I like shit like that.
I l- I live for movies like that, man, cause those where some of the dopest melodies are found, you know, some of the dopest ideas.
I shouldn't be sharing my knowledge and my jewels  of how I listen to music, but, you know what I'm saying, maybe it'll help somebody else, open 'em up, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, like Japanese cartoons, kung fu movies and shit.
I'm into all that shit, man.
Any-  I'm into anything animated except  porn.
Know what I'm saying, I can't- yeah, I can't get with that sh- yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I wanna see real titties, man, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, hell yeah.
It's just weird.
It's like liking animal porn.
It's weird.
Yeah, it's some- it's some out the box shit, but it's gonna happen.
Nah, it's cool.
What?
The entire passage?
Bruh, this is gonna kill me I hate public- for the record I hate publicly reading.
It's not that I can't.
It's just I hate it.
It's cool though, you know what I'm saying.
I'm'a do it just because.
Once upon a time, there was a rat  who wouldn't make up his mind.
Let me see, uh, w-  whenever the other rats aksed him-  uh,  hold on I gotta make this bigger, bruh.
I don't have my glasses.
Alright there we go.
Should I start over?
Take two,   the story of Arthur the rat.
The rat.
Speaking of rats, man, like there was a lot of rats.
I saw a lot of rats coming u- I lived in Baltimore for a second too, definitely forgo- Man, e- it's infested with rats, bro.
I-  I know that has nothing to do with the interview whatsoever, and that- I hope this tells you the type of dialogue in which- that w- me and my friend are having, man, which is a very close friend of mine, no  pause, you know what I'm saying.
But, you know what I'm saying, like I just want you to know who I am, a-  how I think,  you know what I'm saying.
So don't get-  don't get stuck on-  on the intellect,  or don't get stuck on, you know, the little things that I say cause I'm so random, man.
I'll just say anything,  like,  you know, how-  the story of  Arthur the rat triggered Baltimore rats, know what I'm saying.
You feel me?
None of this sh-  Nah, that's cool.
Nah, nah, nah, I'm already here, bro.
Take three.
The story of Arthur the rat,  you know what I'm saying,  speaking of rats, man, they a lot of rats.
Killing   Like speaking of rats, man, it's just a-  watch your back out here in the streets, man.
It's a lot of rats in this music industry.
What do I-  oh, alright.
Damn.
Alright,  i-  whoever Stella is, I hope she got her groove back,  you know what I'm saying.
Alright.
It says please read the story aloud.
Please call Stella.
Aks her to bring these things with her-  with her from the store.
Six spoons  of fresh snow peas,  five-  five thick slabs of blue cheese, and maybe a snack for her brother Bob.
We also need a small plastic snake  and a big toy-  a big-  a big-   and a big toy frog.
A- alright.
Alright.
Please call Stella.
Aks her to bring these things with th-  with her from the store.
Six spoons of fresh snow peas,  five thick slabs of blue cheese, and maybe a snack for her brother Bob.
We also need a small plastic snake  and a big toy frog for the kids.
She can scoop these things  into three red bags, and we'll go-  and we will go meet her  Wednesday o-  at the train station.
Now I gotta read all this shit?
Alright.
Nah that's cool.
I didn't know, but now I know.
I'm preparing myself.
Now I'm a little hot.
Like, what is that?
Oh yeah.
Alright, what, you wanna hear some of the Jay-Z record?
Ooh.
Oh, you wanna know what I listen to.
Facts.
Mm.
I see where you're going with this.
Mm.
Yeah.
Mm.
Appreciate it.
Appreciate it.
Uh, let me see.
Fucking,  oh,  this song is gonna kill it.
One minute,  here we go.
Yeah, yeah, hell yeah.
Joe Budden, I fuck with him.
I like what he did for Yachty.
He really put Yachty on some shit.
Like he tried to- he opened Yachty's mind up.
Yeah, but lowkey he need to be embracing that shit, you know what I'm saying.
Least inquire about what he's saying, you know, seek further knowledge.
And that's what we as-  we get blinded by the fame and the money and the hoes and the bitches and the- all this shit  that we forget to look into our business,  and then we look up and we're thirty-five, forty years old realizing we owe  fucking-  our royalties and publishing been depleted because of us wanting to live the lifestyle to get to the gar-  the grande status as they say, or the A list celebrity, you know what I'm saying.
They don't take time to look into their paperwork.
So I stress that, you know what I'm saying, I'm not even saying I've arrived, cause I-  y'all talking to me right now as a nobody,  but I promise you the next time we do a interview,  I'll be a somebody.
You know what I'm saying, so-  and I mean that in the most humble way, you know what I'm saying,  all-  all thanks and praise to Allah,  you know what I'm saying, Yahweh.
You know what I'm saying, but  yeah.
That's- Facts.
Fact.
But this some shit I listen to.
I'll bust some shit like this out for you, bro.
You know what I'm saying, I'm from up North, man, so, you know.
Oh, fuck.
You know, I'm- Common Co- We was.
I think for me, Common, man, it's-  it's his message.
It's conscious  relevant  message music.
You know what I'm saying, like I think he just did a record, if I'm not mistaken, for  that- uh, that slave movie that was out,  um,    uh, Birth of a Nation.
He did a record,  and I think I got the record on my phone, but it was just crazy, man, how  him speaking  the truth and speaking- he's speaking shit that's really relevantly going on in the world today.
You know what I'm saying, he was hip,  you know, because he s-  sought  further knowledge.
You know, and from that perspective I respect him because it  reflects in his lyrical content.
You can that niggas level b-  of education through his lyrical delivery.
A lot of these niggas play themselves down for the industry.
You know what I'm saying, but a lot of these niggas is really intelligent.
And I use the nig-  the nigga term  as  embracing my fellow,  you know,  brethren for the record because I know that's a conversation in itself,  you know what I'm saying, the meaning behind it.
But I have to state that because this is going on a public record, and I don't want my image to be tainted or reflected, you know what I'm saying, in such a way.
So I mean it as a-  as a gesture of endearment, you know what I'm saying, like Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, hell yeah.
Exactly, you know what I'm saying, so that's why I- that comes from just  watching other niggas put their foot in they mouth saying shit socially  via Breakfast Club or, you know, Sway in the Morning, uh, Everyday Struggle, syndicated record shows of that- of that nature, you know what I'm saying.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah, like I respect the guy Vince Mensa for going up there and telling Akademiks That he smack the shit out of 'em because that's some real nigga shit.
But at the end of the day, he told 'em in such a intellectual way, and he had a dialogue  that was crazy to back up his reasoning for why he made that statement,  you know what I'm saying, he had no choice but to respect him.
Yeah, it definitely is.
Lawsuit.
Yeah.
But I don't think Akademiks would take it that far because it's-  it's the culture,  you know what I'm saying.
You can't deny the culture.
You mighta reacted different.
Behind-     Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It woulda-  definitely woulda been one of them situations.
Yeah.
The thing is they want us to be monkeys, and they want us- like movies like I don't know if you've ever seen the movie Bamboozled, but it- the- you kn- if not you need to watch it, bro.
It depicts the way the Black man in my opinion  to a certain extent is viewed via entertainment, let it be music, you know what I'm saying, movies, whatever.
It-  it shows how we are used as pawns  to get to a bigger plateau.
We create a revenue  and then they  take it from under us, so it's all these loopholes because again, we're blinded by  the now what's in front of us.
But  me, I'm thinking when I get money, or people throw money at me,  where am I gonna be ten years from now?
Where am I gonna be twenty years from now?
Where d-  you know what I'm saying, the- and these- and that's where financial literacy and all that stuff comes into play, and niggas don't share that type of knowledge with each other.
Niggas all- we-  yeah, we talking about who got the hottest car or the baddest bitch or who fucking the bitch that your mans just fucked  with  a year ago, you know what I'm saying, on IG.
And now you hit her, and now y'all niggas about to start beefing cause she gonna start telling both of y'all secrets, you know what I'm saying, cause y'all tell her everything type shit.
You feel it, you feel me.
So it's like, you know what I'm saying, I- I'm- I'm more concerned about where my accounts gonna be, where I'm making investments.
How- how can I further myself where, if music doesn't work out for me, what other lanes can I operate in effectively,  you know what I'm saying, and still prevail as a- as a entrepreneur, you know what I'm saying, as a young black man,  you know what I'm saying, that comes from adversity?
You know,  you know, so, you know.
It's why I work the way I do, man.
That's why I don't sleep.
And, you know what I'm saying, shouts out to RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-2, you know what I'm saying,  you know, it's the movement-  the movement like- the movement is real,  you know, I'm not just saying that cause I'm the homie, but real shit, man.
I-  I appreciate this opportunity first and foremost,  know what I'm saying, before we go any further in the interview.
You know what I'm saying, you're a very du-  cool brother, man,  cool brother.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, hell yeah.
We in a- we in a good place with it.
Oh, facts.
Well I'll- I'll say this first and foremost, man, you know what I'm saying, this is-  is r- the realest shit I could ever probably say out my mouth  on the record at my age,  at the age of thirty, you know what I'm saying, for the record.
For all who don't know, April six, Aries nation, you know what I'm saying, fuck yeah.
You know what I'm saying, but  real nigga shit,  always take care of the ones around you.
Make sure they eat  just as m-  just as much as you if not more.
With that you'll- you'll grow in your success a lot further and a lot faster, versus  tryna do everything for self,  or you eating and you giving 'em nuggets because  at that point when everybody's eating around you, everybody's happy, everybody's working, everybody's moving.
But the moment somebody feels inadequate,  that's when all hell breaks loose.
So I say this to any mogul  or anybody coming up  that's building a team and tryna build their brand and branding themselves and they career, man.
Build a team of people that you know you don't mind investing in.
And make sure they all do something different  like m- you know, like my man said and uh, you know, a earlier quote that I heard a few minutes ago,  make sure everybody does something different because it brings a different entity.
It brings a different  way of thinking,  and respect your peers.
You know, respect them for they craft.
Um,  put them at a-  in a place where  they're always challenged because  always leave room to grow.
Because when you become comfortable, you c- become stagnant, and you become reprobate in your mindset.
So, you know what I'm saying, you definitely don't wanna-  wanna do that, man, and just,  you know, I just encourage, you know what I'm saying, just everybody, man, to keep going,  keep grinding, you know.
Your time is now.
Again, next time you talk to me and we may have a interview, may be  me teaching a master class on production,  you know what I'm saying.
It may be,  you know, me writing a book, and I'm- I'm coming to talk about the book and promote the book,  you know what I'm saying, book tour type stuff.
You never know  what God has in store, you know what I'm saying, the almighty creator.
And I'm not even the most religious person.
I love God,  you know what I'm saying, but  again that's another conversation.
You don't have to  be physically attached  to it  fo-  you don't have to be physically attached to a church,  you know, to-  to have a relationship and always know that, man, you know.
So I just say, man,  God bless,  you know what I'm saying, the almighty creator.
Again thank you for this interview.
Know what I'm saying RD-NAME-3 on the rise,  socially awkward,  slay that shit,  you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, you know what I'm saying, we- we up next.
Um,  y'all just support us.
You know what I'm saying, the movement- the movement has already begun.