Mm,  let me see.
Do you want me to answer that in a sentence?
Okay.
I played um, hopscotch, hide and go seek, tag, um,   jump rope.
Jacks,  rope,  mm.
Around the Mulberry Bush, um,    Charlie Chaplin.
Um, Mother's ??
Around the Mulberry Bush.
Yeah.
Um,    Around the Mulberry Bush.
You have a circle, you know, and you say, around the mulberry bush  um,   where the green grass grow,  uh, Miss Rita, Miss Rita.
Your sweetheart is here.
He wrote you a letter to turn around your back, around the mulberry bush.
And then everybody turn around, you know, after you say that.
And then you go on back around.
Keep repeating yourself til everybody's turned around.
You know, and then you turn back around.
Like that.
What age?
Um, From five to nine.
Yeah, from five to nine.
Yeah.
It's getting too old for it.
Um,    jacks, you go out- It's ten jacks, throw 'em out and you pick all of 'em up.
Then you throw 'em all, you pick twos, up til you get to ten.
And then uh,  the game is over.
It's someone else go.
Yeah.
Tag?
You run and um,  person that you hit is it  and keep on running.
Tag means you haven't ?
been it.
And we used to play um-    What is it?
Cr- Oh yeah, Criss Cross.
Yeah, you u-  You know how to block somebody out on the sidewalk, and you criss- You know, you cross.
You know, the point is you cross.
You cross your leg.
And if you get- If you're tagged, and your leg not cross the um, line, you it.
And um-   What else did I say?
Jump Rope?
You volunteer.
You can volunteer.
And we used to play Hot um, Bread and Butter Um-  Y- You take a belt, and you hide it.
And um,  you know, you say you ready.
And everyone turn around, go look for a belt.
And they near the belt, you say, hot.
And they're not you say, cold.
And if the person find a belt, you say take the belt, and you  chase the person.
You can hit the person,  you know, all the way back to base.
Yeah.
Um, let's see.
Hide and Go Seek.
You know how to play that though.
You know, you go hide and find.
Something like tag.
You have a base.
And everybody hide, and the one who's not hiding go find you.
And-  You run back to your base.
No.
They have they eyes closed.
Against a tree.
And  so you run, and everybody hide and you go find 'em.
Then you  run back.
You try to get back to base before the person who  was um,  f- f- supposed to find you.
Get back there.
You w- You know.
They say, high spy.
Stick 'em in the eye.
Who has stole my apple pie?
You ready?
Then they say, first one I can catch is it, and if you're the first one that they- is caught, you know, you're it next.
And then all the rest of 'em come out.
Like that.
And we used to play um,    Oh, I know what we used to play.
Calgaria.
It's a circle,  and you say, calgaria, calgara.
Then you say, name some.
You name some cars, and everybody name a car.
And you get to your turn, you can't name a car, you know, you out.
And you keep on going around like that.
Oh.
Oh yeah!
You um,  put your two feet in.
You say- Yeah, eenie meenie, gypsaleenie, oocha u- amalina, otchie cotchie liberace, I love you.
And the person that, you know, stop at, I love you, is it.
Yeah, we used to say that.
Um, What do you mean ?
Wh- Yeah.
I know we say it- Potatoes?
Oh, one potato, two potato, three potato, four.
Five potato, six potato, seven potato, more.
And you stop, and that person is it.
Yeah, I heard that but I don't know that one.
Oh, engine, engine, number nine.
Going down Chicago nine.
If the train had jumped the track, do you want your money back?
And someone say, yes.
Y- E- S spells the word yes.
You are not it.
And you keep on going around til  the last person is out.
Invaders and Peyton Place.
Invaders.
The Invaders, you know they-  not no particular program.
It's that- that, you know  these m-  There are these men, you know, and um,  they come- I don't know where they come from.
And um,  they usually,  you know,  start crimes  you know.
And um, it's-  .
It's this man.
I don't know his name.
And he- he knows them when he see 'em, you know.
And um, usually  these young girls fall in love with 'em, and um,  they rob and everything.
And when the police come to catch 'em  and shoot 'em, they dissolve.
They fall to the floor and dissolve.
And you know,  and uh,  like if they do something,  and it's kind of hard to catch 'em, they blame someone else because  a person will say, well you know  he  dissolved.
You know, no one believes that story.
And uh, at the end, usually the person  who they um,  said had done it,  they see that um,  they haven't cause  they shoot at the- one of the invaders, and they dissolve.
It's usually three of 'em.
Three men.
And they dissolve.
Mm-mm.
No special time.
Oh, there's so many.
Um, the um,    story I like best, when um,  this girl named Jill came to town, and she brought this baby,  and the um-  She claimed the baby was Allison's,  but um,  as the story goes on, it's proved that the baby is hers.
And um,  it's this doctor- Doctor Rossi.
And um, he had his brother-  His brother name-   Fella-  um- He had this brother, and um, his brother's in town, too, and um,    the baby,  I think is Doctor Rossi's brother.
And um, Jill told  uh, Allison parents that it was Allison's baby, so Allison uh, parents adopt the baby.
And now, Jill  wants the baby back  because um,    she- she's afraid that they might find that it's her baby.
And um,  R- uh, Rodney  is um,  the baby father,  if the baby was Allison's.
And uh, Jill didn't want the baby go to Rodney because  you know, she'd  the- Rodney had to go through court, you know, and all that.
And she was afraid that if he go to court,  and was proven,  that you know, had to prove that the baby was her- his- Allison's and his, that it- They would find out that it was Jill's.
So um, she went through all this trouble trying to get um,  Allison's parents to take the baby, so that they wouldn't have to go through all these court procedures.
And  all that.
That's the best one that I-   And, um,   I like when it first came on- first started,  when Allison and um-   Not Allison, when uh, Betty and um,   Rodney got married, and uh,  there was this accident.
And she lost the baby, but she didn't tell Rodney til after they were married.
And um, they divorced because Ra- Rodney really married her because of the baby.
I like that one too.
Huh.
Valley of the Dolls.
Yes, um, it was three girls.
Patty Duke has played  one.
Um,    Betty-  What is Betty's real name?
I don't know her real name.
Betty-  Peyton Place, she played this one.
And this other girl, plays one.
Her name is Jean- I don't know  she's a TV star or not.
And um,    Betty,  she came from um,  New York,  and she really was mixed up, you know.
She didn't have any  concern whatsoever,  and she figured well, she would leave New York, and go-  I don't know where they were at- Go to this place, that she would um,  overcome  you know, she was-  she had a problem with men, I say, you know.
And she went to um, I don't know what state it was,  and she met this um- She became a secretary, and she met this um,  assistant.
And she fell-  She thought she fell in love with him, but she wasn't really in love with him.
And Patty Duke,  she was a  fiend.
She took these dolls whenever she got  in a move.
You know, on excitement, she took these dolls.
Dolls were pills that- She took these pills.
The pills gave her pleasure.
And um,  she was a movie star.
She became this movie star,  and um,  she r-  she really, you know she-  It's some- I say something like dope because it really sent her crazy, you know.
And she got married to this man, and the man- He was a nice man, but th- uh, Patty who'd been a movie star, you know, she just  went all to pieces.
You know, she didn't pay no m- attention to him.
So one day Patty Duke came home  and he was in the um,   swimming pool with this girl.
And the girl was naked.
And um, Patty Duke was on the balcony.
And the girl seen Patty Duke coming, and she  jumped out the f- swimming pool and ran around the corner.
And Patty Duke started crying.
And she ran to the um,   studio looking for this  director- her director.
Cause she was in love with him.
And she was looking for him, and the director's out with Betty.
Director and Betty were you know, together.
And um, Patty  went over Betty house  and told Betty that um,  she wanted some loving,  and Betty told her that-  Go, you know, go home to her husband.
So um,  Patty took these pills- The pills that were, you know, that gave her pleasure  in place of a man.
So Patty took these pills,  you know.
And um,    at the end,  Betty,  she um,  she n- she-  she thought she was in love this man, but she- she wasn't in love this man.
And she was  really confused, and she-  she was just walking down  the woods singing Valley of the Dolls,  you know, the song.
Valley of the Dolls?
And um, Patty  she- she killed herself.
She didn't kill herself did she?
Yeah, she just- she was just mixed up.
Oh, they put her in a sanitarium.
And then they tried- No, not the end, but they did put- yeah, put her in the sanitarium.
I don't know what happened at the end to Patty.
What happened to Patty?
Yeah.
Older.
Over.
Yeah.
Because she was a hit!
And um,  you know, she started dying down.
When she started dying down,  it was when she was really messed up.
Jean.
She wanted to be just  real- Jean.
She wanted to be a move star.
She-    she kept working her figure and everything, but she- she didn't ever make it.
She looked alright.
She didn't ever make it.
What about her?
Yes, he had- had a disease, and uh, he got crippled.
And she didn't want to mess with him cause he had one l- He had two legs, you know, half legs.
He rode around in his um, little-  I don't know what- Wheels.
And she didn't want to mess with him.
She was- said she wanted a real man.
And um,   she was like Betty- Didn't she take them pills?
Yeah, she took the pills.
Yeah.
Pills, yeah.
Yeah, she killed herself.
Mm-hm.
Cause she couldn't- Yeah, she killed herself cause she couldn't become a movie star, and she just messed up.
Yeah, she's- wanted to show her figure.
And she never made it in the movie star business.
So she killed herself.
And Patty should have killed herself cause she was half dead.
Taking them pills.
No.
A cat.
Yeah.
Blackie.
My cat?
No.
He just- I used to live in a house- He's a running out the hole- You know how you live in a house between two walls, it was a hole?
And all he did was run out- running out the hole.
We didn't-  He never did anything funny.
Um, taking a business course.
Um,    typing,  bookkeeping,  um-    You want all my subjects?
Typing,  Bookkeeping,  Math,  English,  History,  Gym,    and that's all.
Work.
Work.
Yeah RD-WORD-6 Family Center.
Counseling juvenile delinquents.
Run home and play.
Them games that I named.
Yes.
No, kids nowadays, they're more advanced.
They're um-  gonna go to dances and  have boyfriends and-   Mm.
No, they don't play these games.
Kids these days they hardly ever play with doll babies.
You know, have real babies.
A baby of their own.
They do!
Young girls, they have babies of their own.
They don't town doll babies.
You very seldom see um, kids walking around with  play strollers.
They're usually have real strollers, real babies in 'em.
You don't see little children- I mean you see from one to three- That's the age-  They stop at three.
From four on up,  kids are advanced.
They have little boyfriends, and  wanna go to movies and parties.
That's all they think about is dancing, you know.
Really.
It- That's it.
Yeah.
Oh, my History teacher now.
Yeah.
It's a she.
Yeah.
Oh, kids are so rowdy, you know.
She be trying to- She has a little soft voice- She be trying to keep 'em quiet.
She-  she can't make it.
And they just be hollering- She be hollering over there, and they be hollering over her.
It's fair.
In a way.
In a way, it's not.
What she does- She- she start these conversations, you know,  and um,  you know how kids, you know, teenagers getting in- know what they talking about.
And everybody trying to tell each other something, you know.
And she been started conversating and she can't control after it gets started.
That- that- that's what happened in History.
No, she never hollered at me.
Yeah, the whole class.
It's this one boy,  he's a mess.
He jump up and hollering and running around.
She holler at him mostly all the time.
Not since sixth grade.
He was nice.
He was-  You know, he never gave us much work.
And he took us on trips and took us outside.
He was real nice.
Mm.
He was sweet.
I never heard him holler at anyone either.
In elementary school,  what make a kid like a teacher  is her kindness,  you know.
When you're young, you want someone to be kind to you and give you-  and in high school, it really doesn't matter.
Cause majority high school students  don't wanna go to school anyway,  and  And if they do a thing their teacher might say probably upsets them you know.
And, it really doe- Mm.
It really doesn't matter in high school.
No.
I liked all my teachers.
Yes.
Aroun-  Nothing- In ninth grade, we had this teacher.
We had him for three years.
And uh, he went downstairs one- one morning.
And uh,  he had- had his cushion chairs,  and uh, they stuck pins up in his chair.
And he came back up, he sit down,  and you know what happened then.
He hollered- He-  He know- He was- He- He knew- Well he had us for three years- He- knew we were bad and everything.
And he realized- He- he knew we had done- You know, we had done that.
He- he just kept us there.
He was mad,  but he didn't take us down to the office or nothing like that.
He um-  Yeah.
He took it, you know.
He was mad.
He just flustered up cause he had knew us for so long, and he knew  you know, individuals.
He knew probably all us had done it cause all us had been together for three years, but he didn't take no, you know   steps about it.
He just took-  kept us there to talk to us.
And that's all.
Why?
Yeah.
Yes.
Three of 'em.
Uh, one of 'em speak um,  Spanish.
One of 'em speak Latin.
Spanish, English, and everything.
Two of 'em speak Spanish, one of 'em speak Latin.
Yeah.
At school.
Mm-hm.
No, not this group I'm in now.
Mm-mm.
No.
Not in the group I be in.
No.
Well it just- it's- it's this fat girl in my group,  and they say she's the leader because  I guess she's so big, you know.
But she's really not the leader, but if we go places, you know, people say  she's the leader because when she leave we leave.
But she's really not.
They say she is, but she's not.
Cause she's so fat.
You know, she real big.
Yes, and when she leave, we leave.
Or she tell to do something, we'll do it, you know.
Or if we like a boy, or something like that, she'll go talk to him.
And you know, this- It seem like she is our leader, but she's not,  you know.
Yeah.
Well the um,   my associates that I be with, they don't live on my street.
Um, kids live on my street  are little kids.
I don't have any older kids on my street.
Yeah they could get in.
If they um,   you know, like us and do the same thing we do, they can get in.
It's not hard.
No hard feelings toward them.
No.
I wanna be a social worker.
Mm-hm.
The job that I'm work with the welfare,  the um,    help people and their problems, and their um,   financial problems usually.
And- You know, go around and try to help their family.
Help a person that  isn't going too right,  you know.
A bad person, juvenile, you know.
It talks to him and s- find his problem out.
See if you can help him,  keep him out of trouble.
I don't know.
I think six years.
I think it was six years in college.
I think it was six years in college.
I'm not sure, but I think it is six years in college.
I think it is.
If I had all the money I want in the world,  I would put my mother some place that she could live for the rest of her life.
I would um,    put some in the bank,  not for myself, but for my small brother, so that  if anything happened to my mother or myself, that they could look- have something to look back on.
I would also get what I need  that would take care of me for the rest of my life.
But also I would work, too.
And I would um,  help my friends that need and do not have.
And I would give to those who not have overseas.
And um- A house,  clothes,  that's all.
House and clothes.
W- Uh, talk to juveniles.
Uh-huh.
Talk to juveniles.
Which one?
All of 'em?
Christmas?
We buy presents, wake up the next morning.
Look at 'em.
We'll go out.
Find a Christmas tree, decorate it.
Go downtown, buy presents.
Um, come back home.
Clean up the house.
Fix the house up.
Next morning, you wake up,  find your presents.
You , go over your friends house, see what they got.
You know, go around.
And the holiday you're not at school, you usually go someone's house and you know, dance all day.
Or if you have to work, you work.
That's all.
For Christmas dinner?
We usually have turkey and ham and   greens, sweet potatoes, and  you know, variety of vegetables.
At my age now, I don't.
When I was younger, I would look forward to buying- getting a new outfit.
When I was younger.
Yes, when I was young.
Roll eggs, hide 'em.
Fix a Easter basket.
Best Christmas present   Oh!
Best Christmas present I ever got was a watch.
That was when I was small, I always wanted a watch.
And um, I had got a watch for Christmas.
It was a real watch.
Yes.
Electric typewriter.
Yes.
Um, I was around twelve,  and I got hit by a Ballantine beer truck.
And- I-  I didn't think I was- was going to survive from that.
Yes, children's hospital.
Really it wasn't-  anything serious.
I had uh, a broken leg.
My le- my um, right leg was damaged very seriously.
But the reason why I thought I was so sick because I got hit so fast, you know.
And I just blanked out.
So a- it- was- so dizzy, you know?
I really didn't-  I really thought that was it.
It knocked me- You know, you could  You know I fell.
I wasn't really black-  I felt the pain.
And uh, I felt dizzy, like everything was  just gone.
Thought I was gone.
What about- what's- What's gonna-  I agree with that.
I don't see any sense in worrying about what's gonna happen because what's gonna happen is gonna happen no matter what you do to fr- prevent it.
Unless it's carelessness.
You- It's your fault, you know, and you- some- yeah- When you're careless,  it's you- you could prevent it.
Like um    burning yourself.
Ah!
Well you know sometimes I wouldn't be able to say that because  i- you can be home  doing something  and  you can really burn yourself and  you wonder how you know, you did it.
Yeah huh, and it just really happens so I'm, I'd say.
It just was  tends to happen.
burned.
Just get burned.