Mm.
The usual kinds of sports,  and uh  let's see.
So baseball, football,  and I suppose uh  usual kinds of childhood games, Hide and Seek    and games like that.
Yeah.
Any special ways.
Ah.
Yeah.
I suppose in some baseball games  who was up  would be the  person who thought of the game first, and you would call out something like, two knocker.
And some-  and the next person would say,  he would say,  widdie up,  which I s-  suppose was a  turn around of, up with you.
And uh  so that's for baseball.
For other kinds of games, I don't know.
Uh  they just choose up.
People would just drift out and  uh  nominate themselves as leaders.
Oh yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well, what did we do?
That's a choose up game, too.
Well, you put a can out in the center of a  street in this case,  on a  some sort of line.
And uh  then what?
One side runs.
Uh I can't talk.
Al- Alright.
Uh  what.
Let me tell her I'm not gonna- uh.
What did they do?
Oh, so this can is out in the center  of the street.
And then one group goes-  oh everybody goes to hide!
And the one person is chosen as it, and if he can  rap the can down three times before somebody gets back, and  uh, kicks the can, then that person becomes it.
That kind of thing.
Mm-hm.
I- I don't have a TV working right now.
I don't know what my favorite TV programs are.
I- I don't think I have any favorite programs.
I look at the Today  Show  when I have a TV.
Uh.
What do you mean?
My favorite theater or movie?
Yeah, it wasn't my favorite.
I saw a Pinter play.
Uh  oh I don't know.
I- I mean I don't have any favorite as such.
You know, it depends on whether the play was alright or not.
Homecoming.
I wasn't crazy about it.
It was alright.
Oh well the plot was about uh  an English  professor,  who was teaching in the States and brings an American wife back to  England.
And uh,  and then he's getting ready to leave to come back to the  United States.
And uh  the wife is going to stay with his father and brothers, and  it's that kind of a thing.
Yeah, yeah.
It was uh  well, it was alright I suppose, you know.
Not too great.
No.
No,  we never felt the need for pets, I guess.
No.
Yes, uh, I mean it was  in the Northeast,  Washington,  and it's name was Charles Young Platoon School, and I guess it still is.
And uh  it was just- it was a Platoon school, which at that time was  not  fairly usual in Washington.
So uh  yeah well,  that's what we did, pass around from  teacher to teacher  for subject to subject.
And- I stayed there six years.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
It moves.
Uh, the class- the s- the pupils move from teacher to teacher and class to class.
So, this is not the usual  uh method in the district schools anyhow.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Uh, what?
Reading and Arithmetic and Social Studies.
And then, on occasion I suppose we had Music and uh  Art  and Physical Ed.
Uh, we  play out in the street, usually play ball if the weather was alright.
At least some kind of ball, anyhow.
Yeah.
Who did what?
Not a lot.
Uh, I can't remember any  teachers who had reputations as  constant screamers.
No,  not who hollered a lot,  some teachers who hollered sometimes.
Hm.
I can't remember any specific uh  incidents.
No, I can't.
They were all equally bad.
No,  I uh- I don't know what that n- see, I suppose that concept  would have been alive some years ago with me, but I- I'm not even certain about that.
I- I can tell you about the teachers I liked,  but I can't- I don't know whether they were the best teachers at all.
Mm.
Yes, I liked a second grade teacher.
Her name was  Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
Uh, in fact her name is Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 I think she's still alive.
Uh  but there's nothing special except she seemed to like the s-  she seemed to like the uh  s- pupils.
But apart from that, uh the pupils seemed to like her, but  what she did other than that, I don't know.
Any special incident.
No, not really.
In junior high school or high school.
No,  I can't think of anything special that happened.
I don't know there's a particular group I associate with.
I suppose by some sort of definition,  if I associate with 'em  uh,  it's either out of inertia, or habit or I like ,  or don't dislike it enough not to associate with them.
As a native language?
No, not this year.
But last- But last year  yeah my Russian friend was here,  and he spoke Russian.
I- I- I used to see him two, three times a week.
No, not as a foreign language.
Oh, a tiny bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well I want on the exchange program,  uh  to Moscow.
I went a couple of times, and worked in the laboratories there.
In Moscow.
Uh  only in Moscow, working.
I- I- the only other place I've been is Leningrad and Kiev.
Oh, yes.
I knew him in Moscow.
Mm-hm.
I worked in his laboratory in Moscow, and he worked in RD-WORK-3 here.
No, I suppose I was  looking to  getting out of whatever school I was in, but  no, I don't think I h- planned too far ahead.
Uh, I can't remember having any  burning ambition to be a teacher or to be a doctor or anything like that.
No.
I just assumed you know, you just grow up and- and do some-  Backed into it.
You have to have a major to graduate, and I looked around, and I had a choice between majoring in either  German or Psychology or-  or uh  well I was thinking about Economics.
And I had to see where I had the most courses, and I had the most courses in Psychology, so I said, well I guess I  must declare myself a Psychology major, since I have more courses in there than any place else.
That's how it happened.
Mm-hm.
Yes, yes.
I was here as an undergrad at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Mm.
No, I- I was at RD-SCHOOL-3 after that.
Well,  I suppose I get in about  nine or so.
And then I uh  look at what I have to do  on the  calendar,  and then I go get the mail.
Well,  on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays,  I have a class at ten, so between  nine and ten,  I sort of look at what I have to do here,  and then I go to class  and stay from ten until eleven  in class.
Then I come back,  and then I sort of look at what I have to do here.
And uh  then it's almost lunch time,  and then I go to lunch from between about twelve and  uh  one  or one fifteen.
And on some days, I come back I have a seminar in the afternoon, and other days uh  help a graduate student run uh,  and experiment here with these rats  in the afternoon, for maybe an hour or so.
And then I come back and look at what I have to do here, and then it's about five o'clock,  and I spent all day  looking at this, not having done anything about it,  you know.
So the solution to that of course, is not to look at it,  just not to  uh  know what it is that I haven't done today.
Well that's what it is mostly,  uh  but  er, several times a week there meetings.
And there are a couple of meetings today, And there things that the Dean wants, and I have to  fill out these things for the department.
And, a lot of routine kind of  well, I mean, hardly more than clerical  uh kinds of work.
And sometimes I prepare for lectures, and sometimes I try to,  to  analyze data  or to  write up  uh, reports.
Things like this, this is what it generally consists of.
So, I leave between  uh six  or six thirty,  and sometimes I stay later.
I guess I'd try to spend it,  but uh  now, if you ask me how I spend it, I have to say, I'd have to  have it in hand.
I- I hardly would think about it  because I don't have any,  any  plans-  I'm not making any plans for spending a lot of money.
I'll wait until I get the money, and then I'll   make the plans.
You know, I think it's a little bit uh  premature  to have some sort of uh  dream uh  about how the money's going to be spent before you have it  or if,  yeah.
I- I- I- imagine I'd make  uh plans to  spend it when I got it.
Uh I'll have to keep the economy going  or somebody's economy going.
Sleeping, generally.
Uh  what holidays do they celebrate?
Any holiday they can get.
Uh  but the usual, national holidays.
Sometimes,  sometimes  they go some place.
I don't usually go because what I usually do, maybe I might come in later,  what I usually have to do if I have animals, I have to come up here every day to see about them, so  no day is a complete holiday.
But mostly quietly  you know, just lolling around the house.
Yes, you have to buy a lot of things.
Uh, then after that  Mm, dinner,  maybe somebody comes in for dinner, or maybe we go out for dinner.
Uh, but uh  uh.
At Christmas?
Well usual kinds of things.
Uh  candy and fruit,  I suppose uh  are around more than they are usually.
Uh  maybe turkey.
Ain't nobody there particularly cares about turkey, so  but it just shows up on Thanksgiving and Christmas out of a kind of  traditional  uh  procedure.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh, the best present I ever got.
I don't know.
Musta been when I was a child, but I don't remember.
Probably it was something like  oh I guess  some sort of  baseball uniform or  football uniform.
Anyhow, something connected with sports.
I- I- I- I thought at the time.
Since then,  you know you just get socks and ties and handkerchiefs and uh  they are equally uninteresting  or e- equally interesting because it's the only way I get socks and neck ties  and handkerchiefs.
So I suppose it's Uh, hm.
I don't know, I think  maybe I didn't think I might die.
Yes, I was swimming at RD-SCHOOL-3 with a  now famous psychologist.
Uh,  we were swimming between two piers, and I guess it was a couple of days before  graduation, in fact.
And uh  so I guess I sort of ran out of uh  steam.
I was afraid- you know it was the first time I'd been in the water in years.
It was about two hundred yards, and so I had swam about a hundred yards,  and uh  yeah so then I-  I couldn't make it very well.
And uh, it was very hard for me to come back into  shore.
Yes, I- I thought I might,  I didn't think I might die  but I thought I would  have to be rescued or something serious would happen.
So,  and I was very tired for about an hour after that.
I had to lie on the pier for about  and hour to get organized.
But that's about the closest.
Oh it must be true.
Uh  yes.
I- I- I- it has to be true- I mean it doesn't do any- it doesn't say anything, but  it says, what happens happens.
I- I know you put, going to, in there, but  in the  on the assumption that somebody can change it.
But if they change it, that's what was going to happen.
Yes, I- I- I'm a complete determinist.
Yes, it's good.
Whatever's going to happen is going to happen.