Baseball ,  marbles, you know.
Uh,  May I?
to have no fun.
Hm?
What do you mean, how did I play?
Down on my knees.
In the dirt.
Well, I think it was all you shot out the circle!
I don't know.
It's been a long time.
Um,  everybody was sitting on a step, and you have a leader, and they  tell you to do something, and you'd have t-  you had to remember to ask, may I, before you did it.
Uh, The Smothers Brothers .
Ironside.
And the different nights at the movies,  that's the only thing.
It's uh, a detective story.
What do you mean what happened?
Everything's- something different happens Oh well- it's a- Oh uh, well the first one showed how he got crippled, and uh,  he- you know, how he became a detective in the wheelchair and uh, the different  uh d-  types of equipment they had to set up for him and the different people who were working for him-  with him, I should say.
And um, then uh- Oh um,  Valley of Decision and um,  For Whom the Bells Toll.
Well it was about a poor girl who was a maid  uh,  in this uh, rich family, least-  I think it was coal miners-  coal miners' uh,  home,  and she fell madly in love with the son of the coal miner.
And it was real tragic, though,  cause uh,  so many people got killed in it, you know.
Mm.
My daughter .
No.
Which one?
Hm.
Something about it.
Well,  exactly what?
The size of it, or?
The people in it, or?
Well, I went to Eastern, and it's a big school.
Well,  Not in particular uh, about the school- The teachers, I had a few pet teachers, but uh,  nothing about the school in general.
Business.
No, it but it was the only um,  uh,  thing that would prepare me for  going out into the future working.
I- I was never really interested in it, no.
Well, I had my chores to do at home, and uh,  it was very little to do in the winter,  but you know, in the spring of the year, then  I could do my chores and get outdoors and play, too.
Why I had some real maniacs  in one of the school, yeah.
Holler what about?
Oh,  Well, some of the hollered if you weren't learning  as fast as they thought you should be,  about whatever they were teaching.
And uh,  um, they would holler if you were late, or  holler if you didn't show up at all, or   holler just cause they could I think.
Did I ever get yelled at?
Occasionally.
Oh,  probably because I was late.
Yeah.
I mean, it wasn't fair enough to get hollered at.
I mean, but you know it was-  They could   They caught my attention to it.
Um,  well the one I en- I liked the best was uh, my high school English teacher.
Uh, because-  Uh, she wasn't the sort  of person that uh-  Well she  taught you.
She made sure you understood, but she made it pleasant while you were learning.
It wasn't-  She didn't make it so it was something that you uh,  you  didn't enj- you didn't like.
Some teachers can teach you things, and  they turn you against it because of the way they're teaching it, but she made it interesting, you know.
Mm, oh, quite a few.
Um- Well, uh, the one- the only teacher that I really objected to was a male teacher,  and he was a  Science-  uh, General Science and Biology teacher.
And uh,  he acted like everybody was an idiot,  other than him, so  quite naturally, nobody got along with him.
Uh,  well,  the uh, same English teacher I was talking about, they used to play some pretty mean ones on her.
But she took it in good spirit, you know.
Well they weren't really mean tricks.
Um,  I know we uh,   wrote a blank check one- uh, wrote a check one day for a million dollars and put it on her desk.
And uh- Oh, she was tickled pink with it.
Is there a group of people-?
That I used to?
Oh, when I was in school-  well, there was a crowd I associated with  more so than others.
No.
Uh, not fluently.
We all took it, but uh,  None of us s- speak any fluently.
Uh,  presently or?
Mm.
Well I  do have a few white friends, yes.
Uh, yes.
Uh, well,  uh, he um,  gives you the impression that he does know what he's talking about, and uh,  that if you uh,  need help with something  that uh, if anybody could straighten it out, he could possibly do it.
Well um,  I've always had the desire to be a dental hygienist.
Now if I could  start all over again, saying from  high school,  I would make more plans toward it, and uh,  I think that uh, knowing what I know now, I could uh,  have a-  you know.
I could have been one.
How young?
Oh well,  I've uh,  I've always thought  seriously about the dentistry field um,  thing from fifteen or sixteen, but  younger than that I  you know, wanted to be the average thing.
A nurse, or  cowgirl, fireman, anything, you know.
Uh,  well going to college in the day-  during the day,  uh,  at the time that I had  read up on it, it was about two years.
Hm?
Well uh, they uh,  assist the dentist  or in uh, most cases they uh,  like those who work for the  district government that go around checking teeth in schools and  explaining dental care to kids and  so forth.
I'd go to school.
First  I'd go to school, and then uh,  um,  I alw- I'll- had to have a house.
I've always wanted a house with a big yard,  and I always figured if I couldn't afford the house, I'd just have the big yard.
And uh,  well cars have never meant that much to me, but it might be nice to have something to ride around in,  not drive because I don't think I have that kind of uh, patience.
I uh-   Well I'm a PBX operator,  so um  I answer, uh, calls all day,  assisting people in  uh, making calls to distant cities.
I um,  assist those in the uh,  government agencies that are on my switchboard.
I assist those in making calls  in their- either in their agency or  to other agencies.
I assist people calling from the outside.
Uh,  I try to help them  uh, to  get the persons that they want to talk to in the different agencies.
Occasionally I do some typing.
Uh,  little filing,  but mostly it's the uh,  telephone operator.
Department of the Interior.
Well,  we uh-  Well the biggest kick is that  we c-  toys for my little girl, but  uh, we usually  have presents for  different other people in the family, and  go visiting those and  ah,  that's the biggest part.
Uh, I really hadn't thought about it.
It's too far ahead.
M- Uh- Since I've been older or when I was younger or?
Uh, a pair of roller skates.
Describe a pair of roller skates?
They were just  metal street skates.
No, not that I can recall.
Well, uh, I feel that there are certain things that you can prevent from happening,  but uh,  in the uh, case of fate, where you don't know where, you know- what's-  is in store for you, then anything can happen.