I play hopscotch and kickball  and sometimes we play Climbing the Trees and Follow the Leader.
Hop- Hopscotch.
We write the numbers down to ten on um-  on the blocks, the cement, and have blocks.
And  we throw the rock on  number one,  and we  s- we jump in number two on one foot up to ten and jump back and  stand on one foot and pick the rock up  and jump off.
And if you can get it-  the rock into ten,  and do the same,  you win the game.
We call it.
Or either we put our feet in and say, engine engine number nine.
Yeah.
Well,  we'll put our feet in  and we'll say, Engine-  Engine engine number nine speeding down the Chicago line.
If the train should jump the track,  do you want your money back?
Yes or no.
If somebody say yes or somebody said no,  then we say uh, Y-E-S spells the word yes and you are not it.
So the one that's not it is first.
Jump rope.
We'll say,  Down in the valley where the green grass grows, they say RD-NAME-2's sweet as a rose.
She sang, she sang, she sang so sweet,  along came John and kissed her on the cheek.
How many kisses did she receive?
And then she keep jumping until she miss.
That's the s- amount of kisses she receive.
No.
Yeah.
One person-  We'll put our feet in do the same thing, and whoever it is  it, will-  The last one that's in,  they'll be the l-  uh-  the one that's it.
And  they'll get-  ho- hide their face.
They be saying um,  My mother told me  to wash them clothes.
Are you ready?
And w- If we not ready,  he'll keep saying the same thing.
And- We'll say, ready!
And then when he come looking for us,  he'll say,  first or last.
He'll say, the first one.
And if he catch the first one, this-  the first person that he catch is it.
Yes.
Follow the Leader.
See,  we can choose-  we can  choose whoever we want for the leader, so we'll choose somebody.
And like my cousin RD-NAME-2,  we like her for the leader all the time.
And we'll-  we'll do anything she do.
We'll go in the park and play Follow the Leader.
Park.
In the park.
Grant Circle.
Nothing but trees and benches, but we don't play on the benches.
We play in the trees.
Passed to the sixth grade.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
It was-  I like it but my teacher was mean.
Yeah.
She- You know, she holler at you.
And when I be doing my work, she'll say I wasn't doing it.
And she could see me plain as day in that- See me doing my work and not talking.
She'll say,  Wanda,  stop talking.
And she had this big thick magnifying glass, and she hear other children talk, she bam it on the desk.
And I jump,  and I said,   come on, just like that.
Cause she scare me.
Yes, I think she was fair because she was telling the-  and she used to tell us right from wrong.
She was fair because  she- she want- she did- she wanted us not to-  She wanted us to behave ourselves when we go on trips  and be amenable to everyone.
We went to uh, Harper's Ferry.
We went to the S-  Smithsonian, and  we went to the Capitol, and we rode on the subway.
And  I didn't go on many trips with them.
We studied  when- When I first came there we started studying about Ch-  Christopher Columbus.
And then we went on down to Paul Revere.
And  we studied about the Revolutionary War.
And then- and we study about the Civil War.
We studied about  John Hancock  and  Thomas Jefferson and Abe Lincoln.
And George Washington.
We studied about most of the presidents.
History?
If I had homework, I couldn't look at TV until I get my homework  done.
And-  and if I- after I got my homework done,  I could go out and play, and I didn't have to look at TV if I didn't want to.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
That was- Yes, but sh- Miss RD-NAME-2 wasn't at RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-NAME-2.
Because I used to eat lunch with her every twelve o'clock.
I don't know.
She picked me.
But it- it wasn't only me that eat lunch with her.
It was other-  other friends of mines in her classroom.
Because she-  She'd tell us  not to be bad and don't be bad like, and don't be igorant and don't be ma- don't be unmenable.
Doing things you do not sposta do.
Mm,  yeah.
To be- Well I think  like just being good is  um,  do  good deeds for people.
Like um,  a-  um,  a girl was in the store,  and she needed two cent because she didn't have enough money, and I would give her two cent and that would be good.
Miss RD-NAME-1.
Fifth.
Yeah.
Yes.
She didn't-  she just um-  She used to pick on me all the time.
She-  She- I said-  She was going to the White-  to the um,  the White House to get something for the school you know?
And um,  she was picking monitors,  so she wouldn't pick me.
I said, Miss RD-NAME-2 can I be a monitor?
And I raised my hand and I try to be quiet and I try to do nice things.
She wouldn't pick me.
So she pick everybody- Everybody did something for her but me.
She wouldn't let me do nothing for her.
Flintstones.
Flintstones, when Pebble-  when Pebbles  growed up to be a lady,  and Bam Bam growed up to be a man,  they got married.
And so  Barney was the King,  so- Uh, F-  Fred, he tried to get up to see Barney.
And Barney had all these big  slaves, so they wouldn't let Barney get- wouldn't let Fred get up to see Barney, so Fred got up there some kind of way.
So Barney- and she- he- he- he went to sleep  on this cliff, and mm,  he- he woke up and it was a hundred years, and he was real old.
And  so he didn't know where his wife and his children was.
So when he found 'em, they was grown up,  and his wife was all old and gray.
He said,  Wilma!
What happened?
What happened?
I've been sleeping for a hundred years.
Fred, I told you to wake up!
But Fred did not wake up.
And that's what happened.
Mm.
Yeah.
Um,  I like Burke's Law  sometime.
It's about uh- uh- it's about  he just- No.
Yes.
He's a uh, detective.
Yes.
And I like um,  Dark Shadows.
It's a story  and  it's about Barnabas and  you know and-  See, Barnabas,  he-  They found him in this brick wall.
He's a  vampire.
And they found him in a brick wall.
So Barnabas is already- almost  dead, so they save Barnabas and Barnabas start- When he came alive,  he start killing people.
and everything.
And he like Vicky most of all.
Vicky was  one of the actors.
And- and she- She said, Barnabas!
What do you want with me?
Barnabas say, I want your blood!
Like that.
Yes.
It comes on ten o'clock in the morning sometimes.
And it comes on at three o'clock in the evening.
Speedway.
Yeah, it was about  Elvlis Presley.
And um, he was in this-  this-  a car race, you know.
With the car-  Yes.
And uh, he'd win every race and one-  the f-  last time he won,  he turned over, and he jumped out the car real fast and the car start burning.
to- so they fixed it up.
And then,  next time it got back in the race, the car burnt all the way up that time, so  he ain't have a car anymore.
And then  he d- met this girl and he liked her,  and she didn't like him.
And she's talking about he was ornery.
and he was igorant,  and he was this and he was that.
So  he shook her real hard, and then her-  her date that's sposta been carrying her out,  he went up to hit Elvis Presley- Elvis Presley hit him.
And he fell out on his back and slid all the way into the- into the elevator.
And then  they went into the-  the cafeteria, and it was closed so he knocked the sign down.
Elvis Presley knocked the sign down.
And  he was talking to her, and she said-  she said-  Elvlis Presley said,  You're so mean and ornery and  stingy and  you're just too mean for me!
Just like that.
And so  they- i- He started singing to her,  and then she kissed him.
She said, oh no, you ain't gonna trick me like this.
Oh no.
And then he said,  What you mean by trick you?
Then he shook her again,  and then they start kissing in the sand  and then  when he was singing his song,  the old man was mopping the floor in there?
Elvis Presley had left out.
The man, he put the mop up to her- him like that,  and he starts singing with Elvlis Presley said, and everybody started cracking up at the movie.
And it was funny cause the mop looked like a lady.
He had it up like that.
I went with my cousin RD-NAME-2 and my neighbor  RD-NAME-2  and her brother  and-  and RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-3.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 is the more or less the leader.
Because  she don't take no stuff off 'em.
She don't- When she say do it, she- they have to do it.
They don't have to, but they do it.
And she-  if- if you do something wrong to her,  she'll say,  Get out of my face!
Just like that.
And she real mean.
You know,  no, they listen to her be-  You know, in a way she's mean, and in a way she isn't.
But they listen to her because she's comical.
And so she say I'm second Simon and she's first.
So my-  my cousin call her Simon.
You know, Simon Says?
So he called her Simon so I started acting real nutty and everything.
And  so  she said, RD-NAME-2, I'm'a make you second Simon.
So my cousin came in that night,  and I ain't feel like doing nothing, and y- you know, my nickname is Reds.
They said, RD-NAME-1, come here, and his name was RD-NAME-1.
And his nickname is Blue Cheese.
Yes.
So, he came in said,  Look at that Reds over there, like that?
I said,  Forget you Blue, just like that.
So he went out back, and his friend name RD-NAME-2, He- I said,  RD-NAME-2,  I don't know how you can play with Blues but I sure can't.
And boy, they started laughing w- you know, when I can- I can act crazy when I want to.
I don't know.
Thank you.
I would pay my grandmother's rent.
And I would-  I would hire somebody to build my grandmother a house in the country so she could be satisfied.
And I would buy my grandmother  a pony  and uh-  and  some  pigs and some chickens.
And I would buy her what she want first  and then  I'd get me some-  I'd get my mother  uh-  See we living with our grandmother now.
Get my mother-  uh, rent her a h- a apartment or buy her a house.
And I'd get her a lot of groceries  and a car.
And then for myself and my sister, I'd buy her some  clothes,  and keep her clean, and make her look nice and myself,    I don't know.
Oh wait a minute.
My Aunt RD-NAME-2,  I'd go live with her.
She live in California.
And she wants me come live with her.
And-  And I- And I'd give her some money too.
But she- she wants to send a ticket to  get-  come and get me.
My- my- my- my mother won't let me come.
Yes.
Because um, they taking too much money out of her-  you know, I don't know what it is, her income tax or something.
Cause- And she want me to come live with her cause if she got some children  of her own,  she have to buy 'em clothes, and they won't take so much money out of .
Yes.
First thing I'd do is try to meet new friends.
And  ooh, go to Hollywood.
And I just like to travel.
But  every time I  try to get a friend, I have to get in a fight with 'em.
Yes.
Or they'll call me a name before.
They'll call- They might call me a name and say, excuse me, and then that's how they be my friend.
No, RD-NAME-2 is my cousin.
But I didn't know her cause I got so many cousins.
When I first moved up there with them,  I didn't know her.
So RD-NAME-2, she said,  Come on RD-NAME-2!
Let's go play with the dolls.
And that's how I got to be RD-NAME-2's best best friend.
And then  she got a needle and I got a needle  and we  did ourselves like that, and it started bleeding so we call us blood cousin sisters.
This girl named RD-NAME-2- RD-NAME-2, she hit me  so, and then,  she kept-  No, RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2- When I first came to B- RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2  slap me and I said, RD-NAME-2, don't-  don't slap me.
Just like that cause I was scared of her, and then,  she said,  I'll slap you again, just like that.
Then she said-  called me Curly Head.
So I said, at least I don't have bees, just like that.
And she-  and then  she p-  uh, slap me again.
I said, don't slap me RD-NAME-3.
I stood her up, and I hit her back.
And- and then she kno- and- and- and-  Then she hit me again.
And I knocked her over the chair, and then the next day she- and the um, principal- We had to go to the principal office.
She started crying  and everything.
And so next day I came back to school,  she say, I'm sorry.
And then, that's how she- we got-  Yeah.
And that's my best friend at school.
A teacher.
Study and- Yes.
Yes.
And study  and take  s-  tests to be a teacher.
And see how patient I am.
Kindergarten.
Okay.
Before- Before it's time for us to play with our toys, I play with 'em before it's time.
No, I'm talk- I'm-  You know the-  the um,  last-  the f-  a day before Christmas, Yes.
No.
Sometimes- Or sometimes I don't.
And sometimes I help my mother put 'em under the tree.
So that's how I know.
My mother  and my father gives 'em to me.
And sometimes I go downtown to tell my mother what I want.
And  this Christmas,  went away,  I got a organ,  and I got an- a  knitting machine.
And I wanted a bicycle but my mother didn't.
She paid too much money for the organ,  so I didn't get the bicycle this time.
Yes.
And I sposta be playing for our church.
And um,  I like Christmas because I like to decorate the tree, and it's pretty after you decorate it.
And I d- I don't like a little tree.
I like a big tree.
And it-  Because it's  more candy canes on it.
And I like it because it's-  the oranges and the nuts and the candy all sit around.
It's just pretty.
And- and uh, I like for it to snow on Christmas.
And on Christmas Eve, you know-  Christmas  because it'll make you look pretty too.
And everything.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't want very much but some clothes.
And one little teddy bear.
I like teddy bears.
But I don't wanna little one, I wanna big one.
And uh, Christmas after  last- Christmas la-  after last,  I got a poodle.
I saw it in the book,  and I wrote it down on paper, and I got the same poodle.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A culotte.
They're not hard, but  in some-  some parts of making it is hard.
Just like the neck, I haven't got to that.
But-  but the sleeves are hard.
Mm.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
You have to buy the pattern first, and you have to find out what size.
And  then you put the pattern on the  cloth that you putting it on,  and then you pin it,  and you cut it out.
And then  you have to make the arches and the-  the dots and  then you have to  make the thing that go across there to sew it,  you know.
And  you'll start a put-  making the culotte together.
You put it together,  and then you'll stitch it across in the other side.
You have to  put it together and stitch it  the same.
And then you have to hem it,  and  you have to put the pieces to the neck, arm, and the zipper and the strap.
You have to  sew the button,  and you have to draw the dot  like that  where the button to go, and you have to cut it and stitch it on.
And- Um, see, RD-NAME-3 is just um,  helping the children, the beginners.
Yeah.
Yes.
And some parts I sew by hand.
One night I was asleep,  and  I was walking in my sleep,  and my mother  was in the back room, and I woke up and looked in the back room, and the bed was all made up.
Looked like the bed was all made up, and my mother ain't never  touched a bed or got in it.
It wasn't nobody home,  and I heard something creeping.
And I was so scared!
And I was crying.
I got back in the bed,  and I went back asleep and forgot all about it.
Then I woke back up and started walking in my sleep again.
Then I walked up the store,  and this lady  took me her car, and got me- took me home.
And my mother was right at home, and I didn't see her.
It was something- sounded like something was creeping in the house.
And I just covered my head up.
That's all.
Yes.
When- If I look at a scary story or something- If I go to a funeral, I walk in my sleep.
Since I been up here I haven't.
W- But my cousin have,  and he scares me too  cause he sleep with his eyes open.
And I had just found out,  and I looked at RD-NAME-2.
I said, RD-NAME-2 dead y'all!
RD-NAME-2 dead just like that!
They said, RD-NAME-2 ain't dead girl.
And the-  Oh he just scared me to death!
He had his eyes open.
And he walked in his sleep all- at five o'clock, six o'clock in the morning.
He walked in his sleep up to his buddy's house, Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
And he was in his- You know, his bloomers and everything!
And he walked up there, and his father had to come get him.
I don't know.
No.
Ain't nobody never knowed I went out.
And I talk in my sleep too.
Yah.
My mother.
My grandma she- she told me  that um,  I was-  I was dreaming about this-  this street I had came into in Northeast.
And um,  it was a street, and I came into it,  and I couldn't get out.
And it was all these funny people looking-  Oo, look terrible.
They said,  Miss you- little- little girl, you can't get out of here.
Once you get in, you can't get out.
And it was a um,  a used car  um,  building right there,  had a lot of cars there.
And I thought I could go around there and get out,  and I was crying and screaming and hollering.
My grandma said,  What's wrong with you girl?
What's wrong with you?
And I ain't hear her, and I kept on talking to myself.
Can I get out of here?
And the lady said,  Miss- Little girl, you can't get out of here.
So ain't no use for you trying.
And I kept saying,  I wanna go home.
I wanna go home.
And so that's what-  that was.