Um, about ten?
Uh  yeah,  played  basketball,  baseball, I did really like.
And, and  Ice Pick,  what you call mumblety peg, you know.
And uh  Hide and Go Seek.
Uh, that's about the onliest games I really liked.
Well um  one person taking-  hide they face, you know,  behind a tree or something.
And uh  the rest go out and hide.
If you can-  if you can get back to the tree before  he get back to the tree.
In other words, he's counting you know?
And uh, if you can get back to the tree before he can, then you safe.
But if he catches you  off base and he see's you, then uh  you're out.
Uh  well he just uh,  when the game first started uh  what he do is he taking uh  kind of old game to me.
Yeah,  yeah.
Well n- n-  just like playing um  who gonna be first up at bat, you know.
They take a stick and  goes up to bat, and whoever you know, can hold on then,  that's it.
Uh, no sir.
No rhymes.
No sir.
W- well uh  you get in the uh,  you get in a tree box, you know,  and  you just throws the ice pick up.
It's all kind of ways you gotta use it on your hand, you know?
Throws it up,  and it sticks,  you-  you uh-  you go all the way  and long as the ice pick stick uh- in a ways  and in a- um  sequence you hold it on your hand, see?
Uh  and anytime-  anytime you miss from sticking then it's the other guy's go, you know?
And whoever taken what you call the last of it, is Spank the Baby.
Whoever goes out with Spank the Baby then he wins the game.
Oh yeah, mm-hm.
Well uh, I played for uh, um, Francis, the school I used to go for in Georgetown.
For- Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Uh, short stop.
And- yeah, I was a  pretty good hitter.
And uh  I played for All Star in- when I was in the Service.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, it was.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Some were- were- were- were very good sandlotters anyway, if not profse-  professional.
Mm-hm.
No.
Uh, I wasn't that good.
Yeah,  pretty good.
Uh-huh.
Mm-  I never did like the game too much.
I- I uh played but  I didn't have too keen an eye on  keeping the marbles in the ring, you know, keep me a  lead shooter in the rings, so I never did mess with it.
Any game I wasn't too good at, I didn't like it at all you know?
Wait, who's them?
Not as I knows of.
Uh, only thing they get bottle tops in there for is they get they um  pictures out the- out the uh back of it.
You know?
All the ball players and I think they have football players and  when the season,  you know, whatever season is in.
And um  they save them up, and I guess they get a prize for 'em when they take them back to the store if they get so many.
No.
Uh  yeah.
McHale's Navy.
Uh, uh, ye- well all of 'em is very funny  really because uh  Binghamton, he's always trying to get McHale  out the Navy or off his post or something.
You know, and all of 'em is real funny.
But um  let's see.
One that stuck in my mind was uh  where he's um-  he's up there taking a bath, you know?
It was in- in this um  uh  combat zone.
And he had got him a bathtub from somewhere you know?
And he's a bit taking this bath in this bathtub and-  and, uh, McHale came in.
He got so excited  that-  that uh,  his uh  assistant took and hit the bathtub and he took and roll out all the way in the street in his bathtub.
Oh it was a big mess, you know.
And uh  they um,  and they uh uh  Admiral, he came along about the same time he was out there with no clothes and everything on, you know.
And he was getting some kind of cane  McHale always went out open though.
Uh  well um  this one I just went to see not too long ago.
Uh  cause I- I very seldom go the movie.
I mostly watch TV all the time, you know.
But we did go see a picture um-  you know that picture down at the uh  Lowe's Palace?
About uh two weeks ago.
I know there was a lot of shooting in it.
Yeah, the Wild Bunch.
That's it.
Mm-hm.
The Wild Bunch.
Oh man, that thing was  deadly.
Mm!
Oh, they took-  hm, at the end of the picture it was just too much shooting and there was too much killing, you know.
And uh  it kind of make you sick on your stomach for a little bit.
Did you see it RD-NAME-1?
Goodness  gracious.
Blood splattering every which way, you know.
And uh  And uh, um  I mean they was even shooting women and everything in the picture you know.
Uh  well he was gonna rob his train when- Yeah, rob the bank.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, well anyway, they was in the bank already when the picture started, you know,  and they was up on top of this roof waiting for him to come out.
And by the time they was coming out, this um  uh  church chorus was coming down the street singing.
And shoot, they didn't care about that.
When they came out of there, they just started shooting.
And everybody went.
Shotguns and glasses,  take you.
Shotgun take and pick up a kid clean- throw him clean across the street, wasn't it Frank?
The whole head'll be laying off at the end of the street.
Mm!
It sure is.
Well, you know, they was tryna get away from then on, and they was after 'em.
And this guy uh,  I think he used to run with the gang before,  and uh they put him on it.
Anyway  they- he was going-  going back to jail he didn't catch 'em, you know?
And that was all his uh intention was to just-  just catch 'em and most of 'em was his buddies, you know.
But they um  uh  they got m- mixed up with these Mexicans  in Mexico, and uh  and  they wanted the gun.
They wanted some guns from another train, and  and uh,  and so they say they would get 'em for 'em, you know?
These banks had been robbed, the bank- well they tried to rob the bank.
I don't think they got away with no money because they dropped all the money, you know, getting out of town.
And so, they needed some money, so they said they would give 'em so much gold  they'd uh, get these rifles for 'em.
And so this train's coming by, and they  all taken-  hijack the train,  got the rifles,  and then n-  then the Mexican government didn't want to pay, didn't want to give them the gold.
Thought he was keeping the rifles out of town, sending them on back to the time, you know.
As they  and they'll them so much gold, you know?
And this young boy  that was with they uh  with these uh bandits, you know.
Uh  he uh,  he's seen his girlfriend going with one of the  high- high up uh, you know,  one of the one's that um,  uh uh  one of the colonels or something, anyway.
He was high ranking in the Mexican government.
Yeah.
And  he took and  shot the girl  while he was- she was sitting in his arms you know?
And boy he didn't- he really didn't like that you know?
But they got him off the hook, but  then when  they came back to get the money for the gold,  uh  uh the boy- the young boy came in last.
And so they kept him in town, then they drug him off.
Yeah,  took  drug him all down  through town on- in his car.
Uh I think that was about the first car was ever made in Mexico.
But he- it was, you know, it was really-  it was really nice in the  they was just drag him all around  town.
Anyway it was this big celebration cause they had got these guns anyway, you know.
No, well um  uh  at the end it was all this shooting started, you know.
When they try to go and rescue this  young boy back from uh  they got tired, you know,  and dragging him around the street cause he's almost dead anyway.
But it was-  gonna try to get him back you know.
These uh, friends of his, you know, that had  you know, got the guns for this uh Mexican government, and uh  and uh, uh when they  start- when they came in, they's in  and they say well, we want  whatever his name was, I done forgot his name.
Anyways he said  this is how the colonel say well I'm'a give it to him.
So he took and walked over there,  took his knife out and took him,  cut his throat and shoved him too , say  and that's when the shooting start.
And then on, it was just blasting, you know.
And uh  she- when the-  when the posse got there  everybody was just about dead.
Only about- about one or two guys left, wasn't it?
So they ain't had nothing to get- take and pick up nowhere, you know?
They was laying all over the place.
Now I told you about it, you don't want to go see it.
Oh it was alright til the end.
I think there was just too much killing at the end, you know?
Oh yeah.
I- I- I dig The Mod Squad too yeah.
Yeah um  I watched that um  just about every week.
But uh  it's not none of my favorites, so.
Mm, let me see.
A episode Mm.
No, I- I didn't see it Tuesday.
But uh  I had to go way back anyway.
Yeah, I had a dog  one time.
But it's been a long time ago.
Yeah, mm-hm.
Well he was very smart, for his- not too have too much class you know.
He wasn't no  uh  Pedigree or nothing like that, you know?
But uh, he was taking a  uh  before crossing this street wait for the light and all that.
Wait for other people.
Yeah.
Wait for other people to start walking before he'll walk across the street.
He died of old age, you know.
We had to put him to sleep  but  uh cause he got too old.
But he was just an ordinary dog, you know?
Oh, about  about sixteen, seventeen years.
No, I never teach him none, but at the time uh, um  mm  mm, uh, I mean, you know,  like I say he didn't have too much class, no way.
We just kept him around the house for mostly his  uh  pet uh, he was kind of mean too though, but you know.
Nothing- nothing very extraordinary about him.
Oh, I liked the History  most of all you know.
And uh  and Geography.
I like that pretty good.
Uh  other than that  let me see.
Uh, I mean we did  some numbers  cause I never was good at it.
{} Arithmetic, that's one thing I wasn't good at at all.
Oh, I guess uh, uh  the nouns, the pronouns, and the uh  compositions.
Uh  most time I stayed in the shop, the electrics they-  I took electrics there- there because, um,  you know it was um  it was on- on the schedule for me to take it, but I didn't like it, but I really  you know  got interested in that uh  as I taking it.
And uh  I got to-  uh, know it  pretty good because that's what they put me in when I went into the Service.
They uh Mm-hm.
In uh  in the  section.
But, I mean, it wasn't nothing much to it like uh, a line get knocked out or something, you know, up on-  up on a line, we had to go up there and fix it and things like that you know.
Wasn't no big thing.
And uh  hook up  you know  from- like we run new lines from new companies and places like that.
Army.
Yeah well mostly- everybody come home, change clothes and then get on- go to the basketball court and play basketball.
In-  in high school.
Well  what do you mean, now?
When I was coming up?
Uh  well them hoodlums was.
I- in  we, like me and RD-NAME-1 here, we did live in a kind of a ghetto area, you know?
We stay in a little mischief   when we wasn't on the playground playing, but we try and stay on the playground most of the time, you know,  playing.
I did anyway, and RD-NAME-1 did too.
So there.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Long time.
Well uh, um  like my kids now they come home from school and uh  uh  I just got 'em  a couple of bicycles uh  back in June, and they  jumps on the bicycle and go riding mostly.
And they go down to the playground too mostly, and swing on swing, cause they ain't but ten and eight you know.
So they still in uh  elementary.
But it's not- I don't think it's too much different.
Uh  from the time when we was coming up.
Only thing uh  it's a lot of bad kids now, really, you know.
And uh  they don't- they don't play uh  like we used to play on the playground you know.
Most of 'em have bicycles and ride bicycles.
I see m- you know, all in the street now.
What?
At the class, uh at a certain- certain person?
Yeah we had uh Uh  this is Miss RD-NAME-3, uh    in high school,  the music teacher.
She used to holler cause she had good lungs anyway, by being a -  a music teacher .
And boy she's  old and kind of crabby, too, you know.
So she used to do a  scream in it  uh,  children you know especially, when they wasn't doing no work Yeah, I- I've got it personally too,  you know.
Like uh like uh- like I said she's being old, and  and sometimes she would wait  maybe uh, we came in- came in the room  from another class about.
She'd be about  ten minutes before she come in the room and  everybody be in the room in an uproar.
You know how you first come to class and the teacher's not in there, you know.
Well now you gonna take it and uh  be talking or something and she'll come in and scream about you.
But wh- generally when she screamed she put up for down, she meant business, and we all got quiet.
Yeah it was- it was- n- nine times out of ten it was fair.
Yeah um when I first came uh  uh, junior high school,  there was this um  Science teacher, Miss RD-NAME-2.
Uh, she um  well  uh I guess being a Science teacher too, she  showed you every little thing cause I ain't know nothing about no Science, then, you know.
I mean never heard of it,  even the grade of Science, you know.
And she had all the experiments she used to go through, and she was taking  sat right down with you, if you don't understand, you know, and just running right through  to you.
And so you- so she really uh was outstanding teaching  at Science-  Science class, you know.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
You know her Frank?
Uh-huh.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
It really was.
Oh yeah, I had, there was um  Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
Uh  he was uh-  he was uh uh-  like I say like, elec-  uh  Electric teacher over there.
And  he just  take and if you got really mean in class, he'll take and hit you with his fist like he be-   like he be fighting Joe Louis-  it was like Joe Louis be fighting.
Oh he was rough,  and uh  I think that's when I really lost,  really lost disinterest in school, you know.
But I only- I only took one subject from him, and me and him never did have it \to too bad cause he used to live right next door to me.
Up there on Eighteenth Street there.
And uh so  well I took and started staying out of school  myself, you know.
I think it was around about the ninth grade.
It was alm- it was almost graduating time anyway.
And uh  and he-  see my mama, she was working uh,  she didn't know I was staying out at the time, see, so  she- he told me to tell me and bring my mama to  bring my mama to school you know,  after I stayed out so long.
And so I told  my mama the teacher wanted to see her at school.
So she said, don't he live right next door?
I told her, yeah, so she said, I'll go right next door.
I ain't got time to walk and go to school.
So she went over- went over next door and he still wanted her to come to school, so she could talk to the principal and all that, you know.
So I think he was very mean in a way, you know, far as teachers go.
Uh  no.
Not really, but uh, like uh  writing something on the board about 'em,  you know,  where they would read it but they wouldn't know who done it, like  like that, you know?
Who, the teachers?
Oh yeah, they- they well- well, most of 'em, I mean  the ones that we played a trick on in school like that, we're writing something on the board about them you know, they'd come up  erase the board, and  they will be mad but they wouldn't say too much you know.
Put tacks in their seat?
No.
No, no.
Not in none of my classes that I been in.
Oh yeah, uh-huh.
Uh, you mean uh  us buddy buddies we run together, yes.
It's around about three or four.
Mm-hm.
You want- call the name?
Uh uh- Ralph  and  Warren  and uh  and  was it-  a guy named RD-NAME-3.
About four of us.
Wa- from kids on up.
Mm.
I think uh  RD-NAME-1  did speak uh French.
He but the onliest one though.
At school I guess.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
Oh yeah, in my gang, mm-hm.
Uh.
I- it- a cat named Ray, I forget he's-  He- he was very smart anyway you know, and uh  and everybody just seemed you know  take him as a leader because uh he was  pretty smart you know.
Well by um  I don't know, everything seemed like he did just came out right you know?
Oh yeah, uh-huh.
Well uh  uh, just come on in, you know, be a good-  be a good uh  maybe baseball player or basketball player and  play good, you could come right on in.
No, he- he couldn't go and come in then.
No, no, no initiation.
If I could  uh Yeah.
Uh  a professional, um, baseball player.
Yeah.
I really would.
No, um  Well I- I- I-  I did wanna be a-  a doctor when I was coming up.
That's the most important thing, but I never did go far enough in school.
Well, they- they spend- they- they spend uh quite a few years in the Minor, you know?
Well- well l- uh  way I- uh-  the way I uh, heard about it was uh  uh, you gotta-  you gotta really know somebody, you know.
And then you get a try out.
you know,  like um  I think the news give a try out every year, or something like that.
I don't know what they still do it, I know they used to do.
And uh  and you go have a try out, and then if-  if you gotta good,  you know,  a good backer,  somebody who's already in baseball and just keep pushing you along, you know.
That's the way you- most of the guys make it.
Uh I would just sit back and enjoy life.
Wouldn't hit a s-  you wouldn't hit a  wouldn't hit a- a- a nothing at a snake or nothing.
He's coming to bite me, I wouldn't hit him.
Oh, I'll buy n-  nice home  and uh,  and uh,  nice car, you know.
All uh- like I say I have all the luxury of life and just sit back and live good.
Wu- Well see I drive truck, you know.
And uh  delivering is mostly, you know,  a typical day at work.
You unders-  I live- I mean I work for a plastic company,  and it's not very hard-  very hard work cause all it's kind of light, you know.
And uh  I enjoy it really, because I get around and see a whole lot of the country, you know.
Well uh, When I first get there uh, I write up my um-  I write up my stops first.
You know, line 'em up  uh where  the uh first stop  will be, you know,  and the second and the third and go on  uh something like about twenty five or thirty stops a day.
And uh  I take and write-  you have to write 'em all up,  you know, on- on-  on a time sheet.
And uh  he writes 'em up and then loads the truck up  after that.
And-  and then I'm on delivery.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, around about  uh  twelve guys in the shop.
Got- Oh no.
Uh-uh.
You by yourself.
Uh-huh.
Well um uh,  Christmas Eve, everybody gets together, the whole family gets together  at uh-  at  uh  well, my mother's dead now,  and  we  got together at my mother's house before she died.
She died in November.
And we'd all  go up there, you know,  bring presents and-  and everything and have a -  have a-  have a present-opening, you know.
And-  and uh- and yeah, well  and  put up a Christmas tree and all that you know.
And uh  after that everybody started boozing.
Oh yeah but uh  i- i- it was would just  be you know, uh  like uh my sister and my mother was very old at the time you know,  and they would all bring food and everything like that up there for Christmas dinner, but they wouldn't  be around to eat it- eat that night.
Uh, Christmas Eve night.
And uh  Christmas day, well  everybody be so choked up over the gifts and everything, they won't be too hungry anyway.
Uh, a home.
You rich, you can  if you's rich you can afford it   A bicycle when I was uh  about ten or eleven.
English bicycle.
Mm-hm.
Uh  when I was overseas and uh,  and we was up, like I said, we- I was in the Y section you know.
We was up on the OP and uh  a lot of  uh  mortars started coming in.
Only reason I thought it- it was a couple guys got really hurt, and I- I got wounded myself, but uh  that's the only time I  ever thought I  heard the bells ringing.
Right.
I believe in that.
I would say he's crazy.
Cause I don't think nobody can control the future.
Well, you can plan, but it- it never really works out really.
Never go along to plan.
Something always come up, you know,  to spoil it.