Hopscotch,  baseball,  d- um,  pick up sticks.
Well sticks are thrown down  on the ground, in such a way  that they're  th-  uh,  mixed or jumbled.
And you try to  pick up the stick  in such a way that you don't  um, bother the others.
Baseball.
Um,  a ball is thrown  to um,  the  ca- Let's see.
The catcher.
Um,    the person  um,  in front of the  base  tries to hit the ball.
When the ball is hit  this is known as a  home run?
And you run  from base to base.
No.
Um,  it's the job of the  catcher  to  catch the ball while the person is running.
And if they catch it  the person is automatically out.
I-   I tried to.
Mm.
Doctor doctor.
Doctor doctor,  who will I marry, doctor, lawyer, Indian chief.
One, two, three, four,  here we go.
Yes.
Um,  the kids start out together.
One person is standing at a tree,  um,  you count-  He has his face  turned away from the other kids.
While he's counting, the others run and hide.
When he turns around he  tries to find the other kids.
He just counts.
Counts from one to ten.
And within this time limit um,  the kids are supposed to hide.
You take turns.
No I don't.
Yeah I suppose that's how it went.
No.
Never played that.
Yes.
Um,  if it's the same game that I have in mind it's  something similar to um, red light.
And um,  the person  is ask a question.
And um,    the one who is the leader  you um,  ask the person  is it alright for you to answer the question.
And you say,  mother may I.
And if the person says you can,  you go uh, ahead with your answer.
If not you're  supposed to just keep quiet.
Mm-hm.
No.
Yes.
Well one of my favorite ones was uh, Hopalong Cassidy.
And uh, The Cisco Kid.
And of course The Three Stooges.
Well um,  The Three Stooges were  clowns.
Um,  I believe it was Moe, he was always  um,  the dunce of the group.
And they were  trying to play  pranks on him and it just seemed like this poor fella never quite made it.
Um,  I remember  one particular  incident um,    they was supposed visit this  old house  and um,  the house was supposed to be haunted.
So,  the other two  Stooges um,  they didn't wanna go in this house at first,  so they sent old Moe again.
So when he gets in there  he's frightened by a ghost and  finally he runs out  and they  try all kinds of things, try to get him to go back in the house.
Cause they don't wanna go.
Yes, I try to.
Well, I like the stories that come on.
The soapbox.
Soapbox opera type thing.
Well one of my favorite ones is  As the World Turns and um,   um,  what was the other?
Search for Tomorrow.
Guiding Light um,  As the World Turn- uh, As the World Turns.
Yes that's it, Another World.
Um,  the last time I saw it  Bill had been in an accident And  he had had an operation,  and he was in a-  he was in a coma.
And they were trying to see when he would come out of this coma.
That's the last time I saw it.
I don't know what's happened since then.
Um,  I can't think of the girl's name, you know the one that's married to the young doctor.
She's very spoiled.
Well she is still  trying to talk her husband int-  trying to  find out if he can accept his- this residency at Boston.
Which is kind of stupid because he can't accept it now.
And of course she's also um,  trying to interfere  with um,  her sister-in-law.
And um, this relationship- I can't remember the guy's name but um,  he's rather wealthy and he's a very young guy.
She's trying to get in that.
And of course the mother is very disgusted with all of it.
But she's trying to be quiet.
She's trying not to interfere.
They haven- the last time I saw it they didn't show her.
Well,  if-  When I get a chance to I usually watch The Tonight Show.
Um, when I get a chance to.
Mm.
Um,  the last movie I saw  uh, was Finigan's Rainbow.
And this had um,    Fred Astaire and  Petula Clark.
And um-    Well the funniest thing I remember seeing in the whole movie  was-  there was this old  Southern  congressman.
And he had  certain views about Negroes.
And um,    they were talking one day and she was right over the pot of gold.
And I don't know if you know the story about the leprechaun  and when you're over the pot of gold but you're supposed to get your wish.
So she said, I just wish you could turn black,  so you could see what it's like to be black.
You know.
So this old senator turns black.
So uh,  he was so upset, he just runs in the woods and everybody's looking for him.
So finally he meets up with these um,  three colored guys who are singers.
So he joins with them and they go from place to place singing.
So finally they come back to this little village,  and he says um,  I can see the issue now from both sides.
You know.
So uh, finally near the end of the picture um,  the old guy is  turned back  into a white man.
But I thought it was very funny because uh, I thought about Wallace.
And I was wondering what it would be like for him to be black you know for a while since he has so many views.
It's pretty funny.
I had- I had a dog but that was for a very  short  period of time and then I had a goldfish once.
Well he was given to me by a friend of my father's who I call Uncle Tommy.
And uh,  the main thing I remember about this little dog is that he was white and real fluffy.
And um,  I think I must have had him about two weeks.
And then suddenly he was gone, well  at the time my parents told me  uh, that he got sick and died.
You know.
But later on I found out he made so much racket  and ruckus you know,  and the neighborhood we were living in it was disturbing the neighbors so  my parents gave him away.
No.
Well I didn't find out until I was much older you know, I believed them  before when they told me you know that he had died.
And so it- it made me sad.
You know I cried.
Well I I went to two.
From the first  to the fifth grade I went to a school which is called Mott Elementary  which is on Fourth Street.
And then  in the  sixth grade I transferred to Brightwood Elementary School, which is on uh, Nicholson Street.
I belie- I believe it's Nicholson Street.
Well,  when I went to Mott  I didn't live in that  area and so  it was kind of hard for me  to make friends with the kids  because I was more or less an outsider.
Well the kids were um,  rough  you know used to fighting and uh,  uh, fussing with one another and I- I hadn't been used to this, I was rather timid you know.
One of these little lady type things.
And uh, after I had been there for a while I had to learn to fight and take care of myself, and after I got used to this you know,  things were alright.
And at Brightwood um,    this was a different type of thing entirely.
Uh,  the kids came from a different type of  home life.
They were used to more things and- Yes it was in a better section of town.
But um,  I think  both schools had their points you know, I think I needed Mott  to really um,  show me both sides you know because I think I was too much of a little lady really.
Well when I went to Mott,  it was right up the street from Howard and  my- since my father worked at Howard I would just go up and stay with him.
And um,  I've always  been sort of um,    mischievous.
And so I would stop the students you know on my way up the hill and  my father had told me to mind my own business and come directly to his office.
And there was one particular incident that I remember um-  To get to my father's office,  you had to go past the flag pole.
and these students were c-  all circled around the flag pole, talking you know.
And suddenly this guy said, oh damn.
You know.
So I jumped in between them you know and said, you don't say things like that underneath the flag.
You know and one thing led to another and the crowd grew  and grew, you know everybody was out there and this one guy said, that's right little girl you tell 'em, you know.
And this is all I needed, you know.
So finally uh, someone in the crowd recognized who I was they went over to get my father.
And uh, he  came to get me, he  picked me up like a  piece of luggage you know and just carried me away, he was so disgusted.
And uh,  finally  we got to his office you know he was real quiet  for a long time.
I didn't know what to expect.
It frightened me to death and then finally he just broke out in a laugh, you know.
Yes um,  this was at Mott.
I had a teacher  by the name of Miss RD-NAME-1.
And she was a-  a giant for a woman to me because she was about  six feet something, and she was huge you know.
And  since both of my parents are small people I h-  I had really  never seen anyone so big.
And it frightened me you know and she'd yell at the kids,  children!
You know.
And you know I'd just sort of shake-  sit there and sort of shake you know.
So I- I never will forget her.
Oh yes.
Because uh, I had a tendency of chewing gum, I've always liked gum.
And she'd say take the gum out of your mouth you know and I'd sit there and pretend like I took it out and I'd still be chewing all the while and she'd yell at me for that.
No not really because uh, when she did yell it was for a good reason.
You know and I was always devilish in class you know so as a consequence I was always getting yelled at.
Um,  her name was Miss RD-NAME-2.
I had her when I went to Brightwood in the sixth grade.
And um,  she was good, she had a way with the kids.
And she made you really work.
You know you- you found yourself uh,  reading and  looking up things, it w- it was her whole approach.
She's died since then though.
Yeah she introduced us in the sixth grade to a lot of things that  you'd have you know when you got older.
Um, we studied Spanish.
And um, she told us about different countries like France and Germany.
And she'd bring in pictures.
And um,  she would read poetry to the class.
So I- I really enjoyed that.
Uh, this was my third grade teacher.
Her name was Miss- she- well she was Miss RD-NAME-2 at the time.
And uh,  she just wasn't interested in teaching, she'd come in you know,  She'd ha- it seemed like she just had this attitude, she didn't wanna be there in the first place.
She'd dye her hair every day it seemed like her hair was a different color.
And uh,  one thing I remember about her w- on one particular occasion she was sitting at her desk,  she  took off her stockings  and proceeded to paint her toenails you know well you can imagine everybody just sitting there you know looking- especially the little boys you know they were looking you know they'd never seen anything like that.
She was really something.
Yeah she did that.
No.
Nobody ever did anything to her.
Oh no she just wasn't the kind you'd think of playing a trick on I mean you never knew exactly what she was gonna do I mean she was so weird you know.
Not at Mott  particularly I ha- well I had about  just maybe two f-  girls that I would hang around with.
And uh, well both of 'em were fa-  fat  you know I was just sort of in between.
Sort of Laurel and Hardy business.
And um,  they weren't very popular at school.
People would um,  pick on them.
One particular girl had very long braids and the kids would pull her braids all the time.
And then um,  her father would give her a lot of money  you know all the t- I think at the time she got a dollar a day, well at this time, you know that was a lot of money.
So I- I don't know whether I was hanging around with her to get a penny or two or what it was.
Well um,  I  am a member of the international grou- um, club at school.
And uh, I like  people from different countries, I don't like to hang around with any particular clique  as such, you know I think for a person to grow you need  to be exposed to a variety of people  as such, you know.
Well- Well there's two girls really, Veronica and another  friend of mine named Anita  you know and I-  I think the three of us are pretty close.
Oh yes.
Yes.
No not in that particular club, no.
Mm-hm.
I'd say Veronica.
Um,  Veronica has a way about her, nothing really gets her down but so much you know.
Regardless of the situation, I mean she can always think of something funny to say about it you know she says, well I'm not gonna be bothered with that girl you know or something.
Whereas u- um,   Anita and I tend to get down in the dumps a lot you know.
Whereas uh, she doesn't.
She has this fighting quality about her you know.
Yeah.
I think people that I feel that I can relate with  and that  understand me as a person um-    I don't like this business of uh,  being in a gang having to do things because everybody else is doing them, I  believe in the more individualized approach  to things, you know.
If you want to do something do it because you want to do it.
Not because everybody else is doing it.
You know, regardless of what it is.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well uh, I think the main thing um,  I'd get my father to show me how to protect myself because uh,  like I say I was always the little lady you know, sitting around.
I didn't know how to uh, fight or anything you know this just wasn't expected.
You were just to be  a lady at all times and uh,  as a consequence like I say when I went to Mott I uh, had to learn these things.
You know it's quite a uh, traumatic  experience really you know when you're getting hit all the time you know and you just not supposed to do anything.
So I had to learn to hit too.
Yeah.
Art education.
Mm-hm.
Be a teacher, yeah.
Mm,  ever since I can remember I've wanted to be a teacher.
Before I wanted to be an elementary school teacher and then  when I got in high school um,  I developed an interest in art.
So I decided to change and be a art teacher.
Mm-hm.
Well my- well my father is an artist for one thing and I've always been around art and I guess it just sort of rubbed off on me.
And  in high school I found I really had an interest for it  and then my teacher  that I had you know encouraged me to continue with it.
Well uh, I have a job when I can get one really.
Well we're usually together.
It's just the three of us, my mother, my father, and myself.
We usually have a quiet  Christmas  um,  I have quite a few relatives,  but some of them you know you just don't wanna be bothered with.
And uh,  I'm sure everybody has relatives like that.
Um,  so it's just the three of us you know, we usually enjoy Christmas.
We exchange gifts?
My mother usually  makes a big turkey and pies and everything, usually sit there and eat you know.
Listen to records you know Christmas records and um,    we usually decorate the Christmas tree  the night before on Christmas Eve.
And you know we sit around  the f- well we have a fireplace in our basement so we usually    light the fire, sit around, play a record, talk, drink, you know.
Mm.
Let's- Well if possible- Let's see, I'd like an engagement ring for Christmas.
But uh, I don't know if that's possible though because you know finances and this kind of thing.
I'd like to yes.
Oh I think he'd like to too.
Uh, it was a TV.
Um,    that's about the best one uh,  uh, I'd say my next favorite one was when I got a record player.
Cause I had had a record player when I was little and that was  just about on it's last legs.
No not really die  as such where I'd be dead, no.
I've been in a situation where  you-  you felt some time you know so bad until you wish you  would die you know.
In an accident or something like that?
No.
No.
No, not yet.
I um, I feel that  God has one plan for you,  and you have another  for yourself and that  uh, the two  do not always coincide but  um,  in the long run,  God's plan will be better for you because uh,  he's not only  concerned with you and your desires but uh, other people too.