Oh,  football, mostly I- I played  golf occasionally,  but I never developed  you know  professional status.
Oh well  we used to play  hide and go seek quite frequently.
You know, in my younger years, you know.
Well, it-  sometime it would be at least twelve or  eleven kids there  We would-  as soon as the sun go down we would  always team up, and uh  they would choose.
We would toss a coin.
Though, and those days it was a  soda cap.
And uh, if it came up with the cork,  or if it came up with the top  whichever one hit.
It was just like tossing a coin.
Uh,  whichever side you choose  that would be the one that  would be  it  they called it.
And it would  have to be  the one that go  seek out the others, you know.
Well then they would be it.
No.
It would go through a stage.
The last one it would have to catch the last one.
Something similar to tag and swimming, you know.
Yes.
Well, if-  but- uh- say if you have seven, eight guys, uh  or, sometimes it'd be  girls,  and  you say well, uh  you're it.
And he- he lose the toss up, well everybody who jumps in the water, well the first one he tag  would be it.
And  then  when he  gets another one  he would be it.
It just keeps on til it  materialized, and the group would be finished, you know.
And then they organize again, you know.
Oh sure,  sure, sure.
No, that's  that's basically uh,  you know for- No.
Well once upon a time they-  they'd use a thing  called eenie meenie miney moe, you know.
Something like that, but  most of the time in-  in these events, we just  take the soda cop  uh  top and flip it.
Yeah.
Well, it had odds.
It had odds.
Yes.
Well  I definitely believe in  "Outcasts".
Uh  "The Big Valley",  "Prairie Mason".
Well to be frank with you, it's more like uh,  I don't know, it's-  it's a togetherness thing.
You see two people striving to  do one thing,  and  similarly it's just like out here in the street everyday.
When we try- try to get together and  something pulls apart, but  these people s-  keep  together  regardless, you know.
It's togetherness.
Yes, I  can remember one but  I can't give you the date  really  because it was back in the winter time, but- I really  thought that uh,  well I knew that this man was really  together with this  fella  by being a  racial thing, you know.
Well I can give you a brief  episode of it,  thing that I seen or-  I remember they came into town  and  this is a fugutive thing, you know.
They were bounty hunters.
And  the minute they got into town, the d-  the dude they- they were hunting for  somebody ambushed him,  and killed him,  and  the sheriff got shot  the same time.
And he knew  these two fellas had bounty hunters, and he knew they were  capable  of taking care of themselves.
I mean  even  if one was black or white,  he deputized the black one.
And uh  this man wanted  to  take over this town and make it wholesome again,  and uh  the white fella told him he was crazy, you know.
So  well you know, they live in a town was pall white.
And back in those days when the west was really like that it seemed crazy for a colored man try to rule the whole  town, that were white.
S-  But  down the line, he deputized this white fella.
And  he came in  on the scene, and  he really  produced.
He showed that he was a part of-  he was  in other words, what they call this day, a soul brother.
So  you know  that  took care of this thing pretty nice you know.
Oh I've watched "The Big Valley" for years.
I seen one, I think I seen 'em all- all of 'em was yeah.
Of "The Big Valley"?
Well,  to be discrete, I say  I seen one where  the son,  he was similar to a outcast is-  His father,  well he was uh  whatcha call it, a  illegitmate child.
He wasn't born by his mother,  and they  finally  accepted him as a son  and a brother, you know.
And  this man,  this son  he had  killed this other man's son in a  fair duel.
And this-  this man he had  cash money.
He was  in the millions,  and uh  he hired this  gun-slinger to come shoot him down so.
by doing so  this man s- saved his life when he first came to town.
They had other  people looking for him to kill him.
And he saved his life,  and  they gave him uh  shelter in their home,  treated him like he was a  emperor,  what's  what so for.
And  later  he found out that this fella was the one that he  had been sent to kill.
So he played it as long as he could so finally  they had a show down in town one day.
He  figured that only way he could get this boy to draw on him  was to  harass his sister which he's-  was deeply in-  in love with,  family-wise you know.
So,  he did so,  and the boy didn't draw,  and  he  just beat him  up and down the street.
His sister was screaming please don't draw, please.
So  he didn't,  and  as time  came to pass  his mother went into town and offered him a reward not to k-kill her son, which wasn't  actually her son,  out of birth,  but  as an adopted kid t- they had accepted him.
So  they- he gave him a whole lot of money  and  at the end  they were supposed to meet  to shoot it out.
Sh-  so, when they sh-sh- got ready to shoot it out, it was the sa-same fella that hide him.
He shot  this man,  and  for him,  cause he seen a gun flash  and  the son of the w-  woman I was talking about, uh Barbara Stanwyck, as it is,  he shot  this fella  but he thought he was drawing for his protection, but he was actually drawing to save him because  this man wanted him dead.
He thought this other guy was riding out on the whole deal.
Indeed.
Well,  to tell the truth, I uh  I went to see The Wild Bunch.
It was a tough thing.
It's a tough thing.
Well,  actually I can't ex- state  state it  as it was stated on film because uh,  they stated that uh  if you wasn't over 18 you couldn't be- be admitted, you know, but  you know.
Quite a few was admitted anyway.
It was-  it was-  that's about the best movie I've seen in quite awhile.
Everything was right straight to the point.
Well,  they were professionals.
Back in the old days,  you know bank robbers and things like that,  but they already had a name ekstablished.
So, okay these uh  officers, they enter  this city.
They all, it was about  eight of 'em on horseback,  but they already had  people planted there, waiting you know.
They had civilian clothes on, but these  eight that entered,  they had regular military uniforms on.
In the old days  with they  washed out hat type things.
And they enter,  and  time they got there,  and entered the bank,  they had this  the- this reception waiting on 'em,  for 'em on top of the roof.
They- they were bounty hunters.
And  they went in the bank,  so they  got the little money  that they thought they were getting,  and when they came out,  got ready to get out of there, uh  they discovered  they  could see the gleam from rifles on rooftops, so  they said well we can't make it.
So that's about that time church meeting was turning out.
So this man, well he was very  conman.
So William Holden  actually p-  and  William  uh  William Holden and Ernest Borgnine  and um  I can't think of the name of the last fellow,  but they features, they was on the side by side  and uh  Cary Grant,  he was  one of the opposed ones that was  seeking,  you know,  for him,  and uh  they waited til this  church turned out.
And  the people come down the river.
I mean the street, excuse me.
It's uh  stating,  shall we gather at the river  singing this song.
So when they got him  right in front of this uh-  it's a railway express building that they was taking,  and  they said let's go.
So all of 'em  broke out  in the street, and  everybody starts shooting.
They killed a lot of innocent people,  women  and everything else.
And  they left this one  specific idiot  to guard  I think it was three womens and  oh  a fella, young fella, and a old man.
He told him say if they holler, kill 'em,  you know.
So uh  After they shot up the whole town, I mean people just laying in the street just like Vietnam I guess.
And  it was five of 'em that got away,  that  l-lived to uh  get away  out of the whole bunch that were.
And  after- after they got away,  this fella that they told to kill these if they said anything, well he was left holding the whole bag by hisself.
So  he made one mistake.
He looked out the window and all of 'em ran.
He went out and shot all of 'em.
So,  by the way they had  the  was getting itself together, they can't even  investigate.
They found him so they shot him  two times.
So he fell  and he act like he was dead.
And  out of nowhere he just came to life again and shot about five or six more of 'em just like that.
So  then the hunt was on.
This man  that was pursuing them, that  was charge of the railroad,  he was uh, he had some connection with the president and  This fella  and really s- way he r-  remembered how they had treated him down there so he told him say if you don't get 'em say  I'm'a send you back so.
That was Cary Grant's g- job to  go  seek them out so  it was a chase.
Morning, noon, and night,  you know.
So finally they chased him across the border.
They got across the border,  and the fella that was with 'em, one of 'em was Spanish.
When he came to his home land  he found that the girl that he was supposed to marry had went off  with uh  this bandit.
And uh  he had taken her  but to come to find out,  the bandit hadn't really taken her.
She wanted to go.
She was tired of  the old way of life.
She- and the city where they were,  which was a little small town,  she had everything you know, clothes  and things she wanted to uh  consume.
Some water,  anything, you know.
So  uh  he came to this town after they ran across the border.
He seen her.
So he tried to talk to her.
He tried to express his love to her  and all that.
And she snatched away from him and went up  and sit where all the  Mexico gentlemen was were,  so she was  making the passionate love to him.
Uh, you know, and he couldn't take it.
He jumps up and he shoots her.
And when he shoots her, they thought that he was tryna assassinate the gentlemen  because blood was all over him.
They had magnums,  forty four magnums.
They make quite a hole.
And after that  yeah- all these men ran down there and grabbed this girl  so  the other four  told 'em say f-  you know, hold it, say.
He wasn't tryna kill the gentlemen, say he  was in love with this girl, and  he was trying to uh,  you know he just went off behind them.
She doing the same to him right in front of his present.
So  they took him and they beat him up.
So they made a-  they made a deal  to hijacks  this uh  cargo train,  it had rifles.
Sixteen boxes to-  to the maximum I think.
And  anyway  their sort of release of the fella that's ,  that shot  this girl.
So they gave him-  say they didn't need you  so they let him go.
So they rode off.
So they really hijacked the train.
They made it to the uh  the pursuiter  who  uh-  they made him look read bad  cause they  took the train and  derailed it.
Not derailed it but uh  you know, took it apart.
And  one, the end of it was going this way and the other part was steering there, with with the people that had to protects it and they was gone with the rifles you know.
So anyway  after that  they carried the guns on his back.
So they had a welcome committee set up for him when they got back.
The whole Spanish army was there, but this man was thinking all the time  he wasn't expecting to find uh  a water cooler machine gun on- on this train  but he did.
He found it.
And uh he had ammo for it, so he set it up on the wagon  just to protect hisself against  his pursuor,  uh whoever  was coming  to get the rifle, so when it got there in this passage,  well,  well just like any , they had people all around.
Spanish, that is.
And  they was gonna take the  weapons  and  not give 'em the gold that they bargained for, see.
So when they got in this canyon  this one trooper  came up,  and he say you got the rifle?
So he say yeah we got a rifle.
And he say come on in.
He said no, you come to me.
So he came up there, so he told 'em what he would do so.
He had also-  was smart enough to  tie a  few sticks of dynamite together.
He said well if you come to this wagon  without the gold  say  I will blow this thing up.
So he lit it.
So he let it burn and so long so the guy say okay.
Say don't do it,  so he cut it.
So he went back  and they made a bargain  that  he sends so many cases of rifles  and  the people that he sent with the rifle come back with so many  pouches of gold.
So they did so,  but at last  that they sent  was this  Spanish fella  and one of the troopers that was with them.
And when he sent him with him,  the guy there with the ri-  he told him to say um  we got the rifle so they throw  two sacks of gold  to one fella.
They didn't even throw it to the Spanish fellow  that was riding with the  outlaws.
So he said what is this?
So he said  that was fif-  that was sixteen  boxes of rifles.
See we only received fifteen.
He said well, somebody else musta stole 'em.
He said no, say he stole 'em.
That was the one that shot his girlfriend, killed her.
So he looked around,  so he say well he's a thief.
So they took him.
He rode back with his gold so  they split up  the gold.
They buried half of it, and they just kept enough for spending you see.
You know procedures.
So they thought about this.
This man had r- ridden with them all these years  as a young boy.
So they went back to this camp.
They couldn't get out because the pursuers were still there, they could s-  take  high glasses- spy glasses and see 'em,  and when they got back  they  'em, they was  having a fiesta.
They had  this machine gun mounted.
They had rifles.
You know, they was into something, you know.
Fifteen, sixteen cases of rifles is a lot of rifles.
And they was built  something like M1s, American style.
And  this man told him say,  to him, they was driving him around in an old antique car.
Dragging him.
Just dragging him.
So they say, turn him a loose, I'll give you my part of the gold back.
So he said no,  say he stays.
So he say-  so the other one say, I'll give you my share of the gold.
He says, no he stays.
So the other  general  say,  let's don't make trouble, say  we'll just go  get a drink you know.
They was drinking tequila,  wine.
So I mean, if you could see the way they was treating that fella, you know, they's  dragging him.
He wasn't dead, they was just dragging him.
But they say well  some-  you know to get that out of your st- out of your  thinking this.
So they all went and got a drink,  and in the meantime they  went, and  they got  pretty sh- pretty sharped up.
And they had their girls and things, so  later on  all of 'em came out,  and  then anybody realized what they were getting ready to do.
So when they came out, all of 'em ran-  ran up to the horse.
They got the rifles.
They already had forty five though.
And they had forty fours  magnum, stuck in the bag.
Then they had another sack of caliber pistols stuck in the side, plus their knives.
They went up there,  and all f-  all four of 'em stood up and looked at the general.
They was partying,  soldiers all around .
So they told him they wanted  their companion,  and uh  the man said no.
So they said, we want him.
So everybody's tryna look.
It was  a state of shock  to see somebody talk to the general like that.
That's four mens and they got a whole army.
Plus all his lieutenants and  things around the table he was sitting.
So he said, okay.
You want him?
So  you could see him  laying  on the floor.
He was  You know of m-  a matter of days, he woulda died anyway.
Without medical care, they were just-  they was using him as a puppet, you know,  doing, do- doing that thing.
So he  picked him up,  stood him on his feet.
So he looked,  and his eyes focus and he seeing his four friends.
So I think he felt  good about dying like that.
He seeing his four friends.
They had came back.
They hadn't deserted him.
The general  had a knife in his hand, a dagger.
He said, okay.
You want him?
And he took his hand back like that,  cut his throat,  and you see blood that's splashed out like that.
And when they pushed him away,  I guess all four of 'em shot him at once.
He just-  his just sits in the air, that's where they- that's how fast he shot him.
And everybody was so astonished and amazed about this thing  that they couldn't move.
So another general came to the door that,  he was supposed to be the biggest general,   and shot him.
And when he shot him,  the fight was on.
When they got through,  I don't think it was a soldier in the villa.
But all of the-  all of them died that I guess that's the way they wanted it.
All of them died, right there.
So  that sums up that.
But it was very interesting.
Yes, I  I had better do that.
In elementary school, I had  you know, normal basics.
You know, you had the math,  English,  um, a small portion of algebra.
And uh  arithmetic  normally,  and history.
In high school, I had  algebra,  geometry,  English, history,  music,  science,  and uh  And I think that just about sums it up.
I uh, enlisted  in the uh-  a- after uh  high school you mean.
You mean h-  high school uh?
Oh well, I had to- I had chores such as um  getting uh  a little coal and the wood and stuff in, et cetera, like that.
Well,  I had uh  I had a part of Georgia at that time.
I migrated here at the age of thirteen.
And uh Well uh,  I also had my job cut out in high school, now.
In high school,  when I,  when we were out of school, I- I played  football  for the team.
I would-  every evening I would have to do that.
You know.
Like  practice, you know.
And usually on Fridays we would play  some team here or there, you know.
We would travel you know.
Oh, it's entirely different.
Some of them  might participate in sports, but  you got,  in, in the District of Columbia, kids uh,  they just not like they used to be.
They  seek out the happenings  what you might say.
I mean happenings range from anything you know Oh yes.
Well we had w-  uh  a mathematics teacher  If sh-  if you  didn't  comprehend on what she was trying to explain to you after she sit up there and tried to explain it to you,  Well she went off her rocker.
Oh, many times.
No.
I think it was fair at  as I look at it in this day in time, I  being of age now, I st- see she wanted to get this thing to me, and  basically, she wanted to get it to me, she figured that was her main strike.
You know, was to do this.
No, I thought she was a crabby old woman.
Well  that was my music teacher.
It was a m- he.
Yes.
Well  you may look at it like this.
You seen these things  they call uh teacher's pet?
Well  I wasn't his teacher's pet,  but uh  it seems like he wanted me to learn what he was trying to  do.
And he,  not like  the uh mathematics teacher,  he took another routine.
He  used kindness more or less,  and that lured me in his belief,  and I learned.
No,  never.
No, and m-  and in my time, you better not.
Oh they  had to,  they had to um,  they could beat you then.
Sure,  I mean  they could actually  whip you,  and you go home and tell you mother and she'd give you another one.
My parents, I know.
Yes.
A strap.
No.
There were about four.
Yes.
Bennett,  Freddy,  Ernest,  Harold,  and Jimmy.
At that time, no.
No.
At that time, I would say no.
We all had our minds, but  we usually,  if one suggested it,  or if the other suggested it,  we usually,  you know,  went along with the program.
No.
No.
Well,  it wasn't a violent group.
You  more or less had to be accepted.
If one said, oh  you know, he's alright  other ones usually  go along with the  program, but  we basically ah, just  just as fine, we-  we-  we would  just be together all the time.
I don't know where, what it was.
We would go fishing together.
We'd go swimming together.
We'd play football together.
Baseball.
Softball.
We,  if we went to a playground  and they had a team,  or if we went to basketball court, and they had a team,  and they had uh  say twenty four or thirty others,  we would get our group  you know.
And wait til  this team lost and we would play them.
And we wouldn't split up among us.
We just like that so,  what they call this day togetherness, you know.
That's what we were.
No, not actually.
Um,  we also-  one sport that we really cherished was fishing.
Float fishing, spinning,  any kind.
Uh  go spinning  is, wasn't-  it wasn't like it is now.
Mo- more so less than bait casting.
Uh  everybody  used to go there, and you go to the uh  to the lake you might see in 'em  kids there that went to school to- with you, whatever di- they didn't have to be with you, but if they came up and spoke, you know we spoke  but  the five of us would go there alone, you know.
If somebody else say, you going fishing?
We say yeah, if they want to go, they gotta bite.
Let's go,  you know.