Well um  at that time I was living in Hyattsville, Maryland,  and there were no other  uh,  kids around to uh,  play with.
So mostly I  would read,  and uh  I can't  particularly remember any  games I would play at that time.
I had  lots of toys and, so I just played with those mostly.
And read.
Well in- in school, during the recess, I would play those  games but uh,  outside of school, I  didn't have much to do.
Um, we played  tag.
When I was in junior high school, there was a  modified version of tag we played,  in which one person would be it,  and then  each person that he caught  would uh,  would also be it, so there would be  first one, then two, and then say  three and they would be, all be going after the others.
And we'd have say twelve or thirteen kids playing to begin with.
And the last person  would  always  make a  daring run for it,  trying to run the gauntlet.
Um  can't say that I do.
Not that I remember.
No, sir.
Well this a combination of tag and hide and seek  because  uh, in the school yard  there were  cars  parked also.
So  what would happen actually was that the first per-, the person who was it,  would  uh agree to remain in a certain spot.
Say at one end of the fi- one end of the playing field  of the school yard.
And he would, say, count to one hundred, while all the others  ran away and hid.
And then  from there on it would be  tag, and then he would- he would come and catch the others  and tag them.
Then they would be it too, and they'd find the others  eventually.
Rarely.
Um  I  usually don't watch that much.
I couldn't  even say that I watch,  watch a program a week, I don't know.
There's nothing that I watch every week though.
Well I used to watch television quite a bit,  and I would  watch almost anything that came on.
I- I used to watch  uh  Twilight Zone and- and Outer Limits, I believe.
Science- science fiction mostly.
Most of the programs were -  were pretty bad because all they had were a lot of monsters running around.
But every once in a while, especially Twilight Zone,  had some pretty imaginative uh  programs on.
Quite a f- I remember quite a few of those.
Um  let me see.
They're all mixed up.
There was one on Outer Limits, in which uh  a uh, group of scientists were concerned about the uh  plight of the world.
They thought that the  uh  nations of the world were so concerned with  uh, the destruction of each other that-  that they'd destroy the world eventually.
And so they wanted to do something about this.
They um  figured that  if  the world was  threatened by say, a menace from space,  that uh  the-  it would  promote unification of all the countries and end  conflict within the uh  world,  against this menace from space.
So they took-  they chose  from their own number  one man to uh  become  a uh space creature,  which they did through uh  various scientific procedures which were kind of  vaguely presented in the- in the episode, I guess they couldn't figure out anything that would really work.
Um  and they expanded his lungs, his lung capacity,  and uh  changed his uh  metabolism  and all kinds of things to make him look  uh  like an alien creature.
And they launched him  uh  from the Earth,  and then he came back down, posing as  an alien  UFO I guess.
Uh  but unfortunately something went wrong when he landed.
He was uh  shot at by some hunters, and they wounded him,  and he  staggered back to the laboratory  where he'd hide, so there wasn't,  wasn't much to that.
It was a tragedy because uh  he  had a wife I think,  and she didn't know what was going on  until the end when she was there, and she saw  this alien creature  dead, but she knew it was her husband.
And there were some others.
I believe there was one about a man who had  a-  a plate of some kind in his  brain,  which enabled him to uh  have  kind of a mental power over others.
Uh  and he  used his power, and  whenever say, he would think about  a person, whenever he- he would get really  angry  or concerned  about uh, what somebody say had done to him, he could think about  that,  and this person would  be in some way, killed.
And uh  in the end  uh  I believe  he was killed himself by his own power.
I don't remember the - this is  several years ago.
Uh, no sir.
Well uh  we-  I've never had a dog.
We've  had  quite a few cats, several cats.
Um, especially out in Maryland.
We had a  rabbit out there,  a big  white rabbit, uh,  in Maryland.
And uh We made a pen for him using uh,  an old door as the uh,  bottom,  and we used some  chicken wire  and  screened it in.
Y- yes it was quite large,  and we'd let him out.
He would-  we tried to walk him several times to keep him from getting away, but he didn't like that too much.
Uh yes.
Uh  Fluffy.
Oh we had some rabbit food, I believe, and  lettuce and carrots and different things.
Um, we had a cat  uh,  the only cat we've had since we've uh been in Washington.
It was- it was a big  uh  buff colored cat,  very  very big.
And uh  it was tremendously friendly.
It- it would  walk down the sidewalk, and if somebody was coming,  it would just stop and then flop over on its side  and put all four paws up in the air, waiting for somebody to -  to scratch its belly or something.
And uh  he was mischievous.
He would hide behind the garage  around the back when somebody was coming down the walk.
I believe he did that to uh  our next door neighbor, who lives across the alley.
He's uh,  used to play football.
He's about six foot four and weighs about two hundred and seventy pounds or so.
And uh, the cat hid behind the garage.
When the man- it was dusk, and he was  coming down the walk, and the cat darted out and started screeching and scared him like anything.
Um  I saw In the Heat of the Night not too long ago.
Um,  it was about a uh  Negro  policeman from Philadelphia,  a homicide uh  detective  who uh,  was returning home from uh,  seeing his mother, and he stopped over in a little Southern town.
Um,  and unknowingly, he  had chosen the time  uh to stop over  when there had just been a murder,  and uh  the police were, were anxious to find somebody they could pin the murder on.
And uh,  the uh,  one of the  deputies  in- of the uh,  of the town  saw  this uh  policeman sitting in the uh station.
And uh,  this was Sydney Poitier.
He was all dressed up and everything, had a lot of money on him.
And so the deputy arrested him cause-  because he thought that he was the uh murderer  of this man, who had also been rather,  was rather wealthy.
He was probably the wealthiest man in that town.
And um,  they found out later that uh,  he was actually a homicide detective, which was rather embarrassing.
And uh  they decided to put him  on the case.
He stayed down there,  and uh  the rest of the story is mostly a  mystery story,  as he finds the uh  murderer  of this uh  wealthy man.
And uh  Rod Steiger was the um,  was the sheriff of that,  of that town,  and they got three or four  men who they believed to be the  uh, killer,  and they were  all  all wrong.
They had to release them  and catch another one, then release him.
And they finally caught the uh  caught the right man.
It was kind of a surprise ending, and uh there was also kind of a sub plot in which  the uh  the sheriff  and  all the rest of the people in the town, of course, were prejudiced against uh  Poitier.
And the sheriff at least  at the end was kind of, was Poitier's friend.
Not  so much  a  friend, but uh  he wasn't  as opposed  or prejudiced as he was to begin with.
I don't, I don't tell stories very well, so.
Yes sir.
Um, Spanish, Geometry, English  and Chemistry.
Well we had uh  English, Mathematics,  Social Studies,  which,  well it was kind of a History and Geography course.
Um  and Spanish, a language.
Yes sir.
Well  I was picked up directly after the school was over, so I, I wouldn't know the personal experience,  but generally when, when school was over  uh little children either  th- they  hang around, they talk, maybe they go to,  to the corner drug store and get a coke or a soda.
Um  if somebody has a,  has a ball of some kind, they'll stay around at the school yard and kick that around or play basketball or something.
Um, they'll eventually go home after a couple hours.
Uh but mostly they'll just kind of mill around, and maybe go to a drug store,  get something to drink and eat.
I think so.
Well, a lot of kids have sports.
Uh,  those that don't have sports  um  there's a uh, Hot Shoppes near our school, so  in a way, they're still doing what the little kids did, they,  instead of going to the corner drug store they,  they- a group of them may go down to the Hot Shoppes and have something to-  something to eat.
Um often they'll  go over to each other's houses  and all kind, different things.
Um  teacher that hollered a lot.
Not that I can remember.
Well there,  I don't know if that's, if I can make a qualified statement about that.
There was a teacher in fourth grade that I had  who  was- was good,  My mother thinks that she was good,  also.
But I really  for my own, I can't remember that much about the class to say whether she was the best  teacher I've ever had.
I've had some good teachers where I go to school now.
Well she was um,  she knew how to, how to balance  discipline with uh  a certain amount of uh  of leeway in- in-  in the relationships between a-  a teacher and the-  and the student.
Um,  she was  stern and strict in some cases, but not- but not so stern and strict, and  she was just a good teacher.
She could teach well.
It's about the same thing.
They uh  don't mind their students  occasionally say something in class to another student, but  if it gets out of hand, they can control it.
And they can present their material interestingly enough to uh,  keep the students' attention,  and make the students remember what they've been taught.
Oh I've had some teachers that didn't teach too well, that I didn't- I didn't like them, but I can't say that I  disliked them.
I've had a math teacher  um  last year I think it was,  who uh,  is  almost unable to teach whatsoever.
She's-  she's really  uh  pathetic,  and  I didn't enjoy being in her class, but I didn't dislike her.
Um  she's rather old to begin with.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that she's senile, but uh  she  doesn't-  well she's a math teacher in the first place.
She doesn't- she  doesn't have a head for figures.
Uh she has trouble adding  figures, in a- in a column you know.
She,  she couldn't add  three uh  two digit numbers probably without making a mistake,  and uh  she gets confused easily.
She looses track of what she was doing  rather easily.
She'll be working a problem, then she'll  forget to do something,  and then she'll  have to stand there, look at the whole problem for about five minutes before she can figure out what she's done wrong.
Um  she isn't aware that her students uh  sometimes don't pay attention in her class,  and that's about it.
She's Yes uh  quite recently I re- I remember that uh  sometimes  there was a, an alarm clock in the Chemistry room.
Um,  I think it was used for uh, certain exams,  certain timed exams.
And  one day the students um,  a few students,  uh got to the uh  Chemistry room early,  and they set the alarm clock and hid it,  and, it w- it was supposed to go off right in the middle of class,  and it was hidden in such a place  it would be hard to find, and it would distract the whole class for about five or ten minutes.
Um  that's one of them I can remember that was,  been recent.
There have been many.
Uh,  I remember  uh  hearing about  something that wasn't so much of a joke.
Over at uh  the junior high school I used to go,  there was a Spanish teacher  who uh  nobody liked.
Uh  and he was always very domineering  in his uh class,  and in some cases he was just downright stupid, in be- in being that uh  that- that pushy with his students.
And some of the  uh  bigger students just got mad at,  some, one day, and  picked him up and tried to throw him out of the second story window.
But fortunately, a teacher down the uh  hall  came in and stopped it.
And what's so funny was that this  Spanish teacher is, he was about six two and he was bigger than any of the other students,  but they were able to, to take him.
Well the teacher that stopped it  was a little lady history teacher who was really really short.
She was under five feet, and she  had  so much uh  command and so much respect from the other students that  they uh  stopped what they were doing.
I-  nobody likes, nobody in the uh faculty or administration likes him much either.
Mm- generally, yes.
Yes.
Yes, they were the same age and  we generally had classes together.
Um  no.
No.
Um  one of them, two of them spoke uh  French, and  uh  the other one spoke uh, Spanish.
I spoke Spanish, and there were  a few others  that weren't so  closely associated within this group  that uh  spoke either Spanish or French.
Um  I, I can't really say so.
In some, in some cases  uh  one kid wa- was looked  towards as the leader, and some cases we were just a group, and  and s- other cases, another  kid was looked  up to as the leader.
So it was uh Well uh,  in uh,  the uh  tag game for example, it would be the one who could uh  run the fastest.
If we were playing over at somebody's house,  and we did this often, we would often go over to uh  each other's houses, especially to one boy's house.
He lived next to a uh  church with a lot of, lot of grounds on it.
And uh, in fact they were two,  there were two boys who lived  right next to each other that were in this group,  two of the four.
And one of them lived in the church  uh  it was a church and then there was a house  next to it.
And the other one  uh lived right next door,  and there was a lot of grounds around there.
And uh  it was fun to play, especially at night, when often, we'd we'd sleep over.
All four of us would sleep over at one  or the other's houses.
And um  usually one of those two would be the leader in that case,  since it was their  territory.
Yes, two of them.
I  can't say that there is, no.
There was one boy that uh  of the four that I still  uh  see  fairly regularly.
Um  w- I don't know.
It would, it wouldn't make any- we'd try to get as many kids as we could playing this, this tag game for example.
Um,  there weren't any, any  new kids in the  in the group of, of the four of us though.
Um, I really don't know we, we never enc- encountered that situation.
You mean finish high school?
I, I really don't know.
I would like to go in the service,  uh  after I finish college though I think.
Let's see.
Um  I really don't know.
I guess I would  buy a few of the things that I've,  well I don't know.
There are, there are, it would be a few things that I'd like to get  which would require quite a bit of money.
Um  not many though.
Right now being sixteen years old, I doubt if I could do very much with  with all that money.
If I was say twenty one, I could get a house or something  with it.
What I'd like to get would be a  uh  a castle in, on  Scottish Moor or something.
That always appealed to me.
I don't know why.
Um  and perhaps an expensive sports car, but besides that I'd be lost.
Well I don't know.
if, after you come out of college, or when you're in college, you get rather idealistic about things.
I would probably want to give it all to the Peace Corps or, or a  um  the Poverty Program or something.
Could be useful if there was anything else I guess.
Usually Christmas Eve we uh  s- uh, set up the Christmas tree,  which takes all day.
My mother is cooking in the- in the kitchen of course.
She makes  uh, cakes and  starting  to work on a  Christmas uh, dinner.
Um  sometimes there are specials  on Christmas on television,  which uh,  it's kind of a family thing, you know, we all watch,  and uh  and we go to sleep about the same time, I don't stay up any later  or go to bed any earlier I think what I did was I would stay up late,  and uh  finally fall asleep around one o'clock,  and then wake up around six, see who come down to see the presents and everything.
My father would never get up  before seven or so.
I a- I always went in my stocking though anyway,  and saved the presents until \af after my parents had gotten up.
Well the next day uh  well, last Christmas I uh,  I had an idea what I was getting anyway.
Uh  so I didn't  get up early, I just got up around seven,  seven-thirty.
I usually get up around seven-thirty anyway.
Actually, about seven.
I wake up around six-thirty  regularly,  even in the summer time.
And I just uh  got up and  my parents got up.
We came down, and we opened one present a piece before  uh breakfast.
Then we had breakfast, and we  uh  kept on  opening presents during rest of the day.
And of course people came by to visit and everything,  and we had Christmas dinner.
Um,  and more people came by after dinner,  and that was about it.
The one I got last Christmas.
I got a uh  a new bow.
Archery.
Um,  and I'll be using it uh  this summer.
I'll  try to shoot every day if I can.
I have a job this summer which  requires uh  a lot of my time but if I can  shoot every day after my job, I'll be happy.
Um  just about I would say.
One of the many.
Well I  shoot archery, and uh  I still read a lot.
Uh, I play pool.
We have a pool table downstairs,  and whenever I  don't have anything else to do I'll go down and shoot a few racks of pool.
I l- I read a lot of science fiction.
Um,  we have some books to read for school which are interesting.
I read almost everything I can get my hands on  except uh  Jane Austen novels  and uh  things like that.
But anything else, I'll read, just about.
Um  no, I can't say I Um  I can't  really say that I've,  that I have been.
Um  I'm sure if I could think hard enough there would be something that's happened  in which there was the possibility of,  of uh  hm.
I can't really say that I,  that I have.
No sir.
Well if you- if you go along that l-  that line then uh  that's kind of the idea of a preordained destiny,  and uh  I don't-  I don't believe in that.
I figure  that uh  you can do  anything you want to do just about  if you uh  have uh  the preparation and the ability  that uh-  like for example  my mother  has  somewhat that idea.
Um  my father doesn't like to fly in airplanes  because uh  because he doesn't like heights, but also because he thinks it's dangerous.
And my mother says uh  that  uh  that she would fly because  uh  that she isn't afraid of the height, and if sh- and she figures if she's going to die, she's going to die anyway,  and uh  that- that sounds like uh  I- I disagree with that.
I would,  I would try to do everything in my power to uh  to change my destiny.
I'm not explaining this too well, uh.
No, well I've- I've  thought uh  about that and other things,  um, quite a bit.
I- I really don't think there's any such thing as a destiny that- that uh  that  I mean, you- you make your own destiny.
Of course uh  in the- in the sense of uh  the uh  ancient Greek legends  and uh myths where the character   by the gods,  but even in the uh  try to change things, and that was part of their destiny too.
Uh we- we read Oedipus Rex early this year,  and um  we had a big discussion about um  his uh  hubris being the uh,  being the cause of his downfall.
Uh  and which I pointed out that-  that even though  he did try to change his destiny as it had been uh outlined  to him by the uh  Oracle of Delphi.
That  even though he had tried to change it,  that  trying- that attempt to change it had been part of his destiny already  preordained by the Gods.
So that actually he hadn't tried to change his destiny at all, but had merely fulfilled it,  as it    preordained and therefore was- wasn't worthy of uh  of hubris, in that  sense.
So there's-  there's no  destiny as far as I'm concerned.
Mm-hm.