Uh we- we um, at night time we-  we play girls chase the boys.
Yeah.
My brothers- My brothers and my cousins played girls chase boys and my  friends,  and then you know we run around the block and they got chased too.
And you know if they catch us they had to bring us back  to the-  to the house, and then-  and then we had to chase them.
a-  and sometimes, let me see.
Its a day camp at- over at the church.
And we go over there.
Yeah.
We play jump rope.
Um,  kickball, football.
Volleyball.
We go to Rock Creek Park and play a lot of games, and then my cousins come over and we play records.
And- Uh-huh.
They just roll-  you see they roll the ball up to you  and then you just kick it and run the base.
Yeah.
Yeah.
As many as you want.
It be two captains  and-  and then they say I want  this person, I want that person,  and whoever they say they want they have to be on their side.
See they-  The big children let the smaller children be the captain.
Mm, let me see.
And um,  we played football.
You know how to play football?
See, it be some um-  We had to play out on a field.
And then you know they throw the ball to you tr- you try to run to another  um, goal  so they can't tackle you.
Yeah.
No.
They just say, one two three hike, that's all.
Let me see, you say,  teddy bear, teddy bear,  hop on one foot, hop on one foot,  and you hop on one foot, then say two foot,  then you s- when you say three foot you ho- ho- hop on your hand.
Then say four foot  hop on  your two feet and your two hands and we say five foot you have to  get on your head.
Uh-huh.
I don't know I never did it before.
Volleyball.
Yeah.
It be two teams,  and there be a net.
And then you know they try to hit the ball  to each other  and um, whoever don't hit the ball back,  the other person get a point.
And then  you rotate,  and then,  after you rotate,  you-  you um- Another- another person serve,  and then you hit the ball again.
And if the other team hit it back to you,  and you gonna hit it then they get the point.
Yeah.
It be  five people right here and five people right there they go around in circles like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It be  one,  then two blocks, one, two blocks, one, two blocks up to ten,  and then you jump-  you jump one  and then two,  and you know you have to jump over the person's  rock you know,  it be, rock in the block.
And then some people just skip to one,  so you have to jump over one,  and if  um-  and if it be  over two,  if somebody had the-  If you-  if about five people playing,  and they have it rock one two three four five,  the rocks  you jump up to six.
Yeah.
Then you have to jump over- o- up- um, number one  and go to two and three like that.
No.
I used to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah it was alright.
History, geography, science, math,  reading,  mm.
We have physical education.
And that's all.
About-  That was a long time ago, that was in the fifth grade,  and this year was about  Christopher  folumbus I mean Columbus, and um, all the-  all the famous men.
And  in geography we studied about  countries  like Brazil,  Europe,  Africa,  um,  and we studied about United States too.
We study  about the exports and imports  and  what the people do, how the people dress,  how the people look, how the people talk  and how come its difference-  different rules and stuff.
Rules.
In countries and different cul- How come people  talk-  talk different how come people wear different clothes.
Africa.
They wear funny clothes and  talk funny.
And  eat  different kind of foods,  have different kind of rules.
Yeah.
Mm.
Miss- My Kindergarten teacher.
Yeah.
Well,  you know she knew my mother,  and of anything I did wrong she'll tell her but I didn't do nothing wrong.
And um,  we used to have a lot of fun games and stuff in her class.
And I like my sixth grade teacher too.
She was alright, sometimes.
She wouldn't tell on us when we did things bad.
She'd give us chances and stuff.
Um, Miss RD-NAME-3.
That's our  second-  our first grade teacher.
She wear all that makeup and stuff.
She's real tall.
I think about six feet tall.
And she's the biggest one there.
And I- we can't sta-  we can't stand our new principal too.
We had a man principal before.
And uh, before- before I went to school,  he used to have a bald head, now he wear a toupee.
Uh-huh.
And our- And um,  our teacher,  I mean our principal name is RD-NAME-1.
She made us stay in for-  We-  See,  they had some  kind of  program there  in the third, fourth, and fifth and sixth grade.
She let the third grade go,  because you know she said we clap too loud.
We was whistling and stuff cause the show was real good.
It was  Jack and the Beanstalk.
And then um, she said-  And they said we had to stay until around three o-clock to five  in the t-  auditorium.
And she said we can't  clap loud,  we can't whistle.
She said clap like that.
And then the people-  And some people said, you clap like that then the other people think that you didn't like the show.
So,  we have to clap like she want us to clap.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Um,  I think it was the third grade- yeah the third grade teacher named Miss RD-NAME-1.
She always hollered at us, paint us with- mm-  take our ears with the ruler, hit us on the-  hit us with the rulers and stuff.
With the principal?
The principal or the teacher?
Oh,  um, we used to talk a lot,  and um,  one- one of our teachers, you know-  I was in the  fourth grade,  and I didn't know-  I didn't know um,  the- the arithmetic that he was doing,  so she hit me with the ruler, I was gonna throw a eraser at her.
And then everybody start laughing and stuff.
Eh-  Let me see.
We go to the store first and then I go home,  look at tv, then go outside.
Sometimes I walk my dog.
Uh-huh.
Well he's a German- she's a German shepherd, and-  and she like to play a lot.
But  every time she hear somebody  or the doorbell ring,  she all- she gonna- she act like she gonna kill somebody.
She runs upstairs  and then barks and scratch the screem all up.
And um,  then the- everybody else that come to the door they run away.
And every time she hear a little,  you know somebody knock on the door,  she runs downstairs  and then um, he'll start barking and stuff.
And then- But wh- whoever go down there they start running,  and so she- One time she had- she start- she tried to bust out the screen.
And before we got that dog we had a um-  we had another little dog,  and um, he act like a human being.
Every time- every time my mother said  um, go-  Let me see,  she said,  get out the house, the dog would look back at her,  and then go out real sad.
And then my mother tell her come-  come back in and then you know it be all happy and stuff.
But he-  that dog died of concussion.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, somebody hit him in the head cause  they were um- they was jealous.
I don't know.
Mm-mm.
A girl said my brother did it  but I don't think he did it, somebody musta  did it from up the alley cause they was jealous of her.
And um, we have a dog next door to us.
And my dog- my German shepherd he always fighting with us make his nose bleed and stuff.
And one day,  they were fighting there,  we had a-  we have a big fence  because  um, my dog always jumping over there.
So we got a big fence now.
And um-  and-  and  um, they always fighting.
See this fence about that high.
Little fence.
Yeah.
And then um, my dog always jumps over.
So,  we got him the big fence.
We got a big fence.
Now around-  I say around,  six feet.
And now he don't jump over that one.
Ever since-  ever since he don't-  You know um,  that other dog's over to the next door  they know that he can't jump over they bark and stuff.
But um when  when we had little- the little fence  um, you know he used to jump over there every time they start barking and stuff.
And they get scared and they run on the porch.
And every time they  going in the alley then they start fighting.
And then,  my dog made the other dog's nose bleed,  had blood dripping all over the fence and stuff.
Cause you know,  that dog always  just too stupid.
Sandy.
Um,  well,  it was- it was this boy,  and you know she was gonna attack him  and he had this big giant brick,  so she ran.
She ran away from him.
So that's the funniest thing.
No we had around about, fifteen dogs.
Yeah we had around fifteen dogs I- Uh-uh.
Uh-huh.
The first dog was named Champ it was a boy.
And it was real smart, act like a human being.
And then the other dogs we had,  one was-  one was um, bulldog,  great dane,  um,  doman pinscher,  um,  I forgot those dogs with-  with all those spots on 'em.
Yeah.
H- my brother's he-  he's-  I think he's seventeen.
My um,  his girlfriend gave him that dog,  dalmation and we had the black dog I don't know what kind of dog it's called.
We had a lot of dogs we had a dog before  I was even born.
They died of concussion and stuff,  and um, some of 'em jumped the fence.
Some of 'em  just died.
And some of 'em got caught by the dog catcher.
We had a little puppy  named Brownie,  and it died too because  you know we was feeding him dog food, but  you had to give feed by the bottle and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Bewitched um,  That Girl  and,  FBI, Mission Impossible.
Mission Impossible.
Mm, yeah.
Let me see.
It was-  it was this lady man,  it was  five men and the lady,  that you know, th- the um, stars.
And then um,  you know they-they had to-  they had to  um, you know  hurt each other but they didn't hurt each other.
That lady,  she-  she w- she smacked the man, her husband,  that's her real husband in life,  you know where he plays her hus- husband.
Uh-huh.
And then um,  you know she had to smack him, but she didn't smack him that hard.
You know he-  then he tried-  then he act like he tried to kill her.
But  you know,  and then, one night they met,  and then he asked her,  was everything alright,  and then she said yes, she said she almost got the  medallion, whatever they wanted.
And then the um, strong man,  he had this little man  in a bo-  No  he had the man in a um suitcase.
He was alive,  and um you know they-  He- he had to put him in-  he had to put him in a um-  a um-  a b- a safe-  a locked safe so-  so the other man could get what he wanted.
So,  one day  um,  I mean one time,  the um man-  man didn't-  couldn't get out.
He almost suffocated,  and then the other people had to go down and get him.
And- And in one episode there was this man,  and  the man that plays  is a real star.
You know they-  they had a smart cat,  and the cat had to go get s-  get some kind of chain  so you know,  they-  they um, cut the-  cut a wall-  cut a wall into a little block  so that just the cat can get out and then, and the cat went through  on a real,  um, sharp-  Almost killed itself.
And um,  you know he had to walk  on something like a tight rope.
And then um-    And then  you know he brought the chain back and they  pull- pulled the cat back in there and went.
And then they got what they wanted.
Yeah.
And I like- and I like the new shows that are coming on now.
The one called Julie, um, The Banana Splits and Banana Splits, some kind of cartoons.
And,  The M- Monroes, is about  a colored-  a colored boy,  and three- I mean two white-  a white girl, white boy.
And then um,  you know they-  they teenagers  and you know they go around helping people.
Mm-mm.
It's The M-  The Monroes something.
And it's coming on TV.
I think it's five.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I went to see Rosemary's Baby  and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner  and um,  Bonnie and Clyde.
And- Bonnie and Clyde.
I wanted to go see  um, The Love of Iry  Ivory.
My mother went to see that.
My mother, my aunt, and my sister.
Yeah.
Bonnie and Clyde.
Or I'll y- no I'll tell you about Rosemary's Baby, did you see that?
I'll tell you about  Bonnie and Clyde.
Well, let me see.
It was- it was these-  it was this lady named Bonnie,  Bonnie Parker, and a man named  Clyde  Barrow.
You know they-  they um,  this lady named Bonnie Clyde, I mean Bonnie  Parker,  you know she- she didn't believe that um,  Clyde was-  was a um,  was a b- um,  gangster,  so she-  so she um, told him to go rob a bank,  so he went to rob a bank.
And um, then he got the money,  took a lady's car,  she said, this is not your car j- he said, yes it is.
It's my car now.
And you know then um- then they-  And that's how she got into business with him.
And then um,    and then,  um-  And then you know they was riding around  and then  their car they had broke down  and then- then they saw this other car, and then they- they took that car,  she said, we didn't-  we didn't come in this car.
He said, well we-  w- um-  well we didn't come in it, we have to go back out in it.
You know and then um,  and then-  and then it um-  And then um, they-  they lived in a house,  and then-  and then they um-  Clyde's brother  and wife came to see him.
So, um,  his brother was named Buck Barrow  and he had a stupid wife,  and um,  then they went to get this boy named  W-  W.P.
He robbed-  You know he worked at the gas station, and then he robbed his own gas station.
A- and then um-  and then um,  all at once,  and then  they- they was at a house,  and then the house was  you know,  it was this boy  and you know  he had to go get-  get some food for them.
And then  Clyde had-  Bonnie had to go down and get the food  and you know that boy was superstitious cause you know he wanted to know who was in there.
They didn't know Bonnie and Clyde that well yet.
And then the police tried to kill 'em,  and then this boy named-  And then um-  Um- No.
Um-  And then-  and then um,  they had to go- hurry up and go cause police was outside  of the house  and then the um,  then  Buck's-  Buck Barrow's wife,  she was stupid and,  and um you know they-  all of 'em was in the car,  and Bonnie  and Clyde got shot in the shoulder,  and you know she was running-  she was running and out the side of the car,  and then they went to pick her up.
She was up there talking about,  wait for me, wait for me.
And then  all of 'em-  all of 'em went  and got her  you know,  and then they had to hurry up and get her,  and they kept on going.
And then,  when they kept on going and  then C-  Clyde  and Bonnie said that was a stupid old lady.
And then,  they robbed a bank.
And,  you know,  and then  she told her husband named Buck  then what about her,  you know, to get some money, too.
And then- and then-  then Clyde-  then Clyde  said that-  that-  that  don't give her no money.
And then you know then Bonnie got all mad.
And then-  and then Buck said,  Clyde,  give her some money cause-  cause she wants some money,  something like that.
And then-  and then Clyde said,  no.
And then,  he-  Then-  and then he had to give her some money cause she said-  she said that she could have been killed like everybody,  and um,  could have-  could have  died like everybody.
And so-  so Clyde-  I mean so Bonnie  got all mad  at- f-  at her.
And then-  and then- you know then she got all mad and then she went someplace.
And then Bonnie-  Bonnie um, went- went someplace, then Clyde had to go find her.
And then  they went back in the car,  and-  and then-  and then they went to another house,  and then um,  after they went to another house-  Um, I'm going to the end, okay?
And then,  this man named-  this boy named W.P.
you know he didn't wanna get killed.
So you know,  they-  they was- they was in  um,  police-  police were all around 'em,  so-  so when police was all around  the man named Buck,  um, Clyde's brother  he got all shot in the head, he died.
And  his wife  was blind.
And but Bonnie and Clyde didn't get hurt.
And that boy named W.P.
they didn't get hurt.
That man named  Buck died.
And-  and you know, and then she was crawling,  the other lady was crawling,  cra- cr- crawling around,  and- Cause she was blind, and she said, my eyes my eyes,  and then you know she couldn't see nothing but black.
And then she- then she kept on saying, my eyes, what happened to my eyes,  so you know they left her.
They tried to get her but they couldn't, so they left her.
And the police got her- got her and put her-  put her in the um,  put her in the St.
Elizabeth hospital, and they fixed her all up and she didn't die.
You know she was just blind.
And then man told her to tell where Bonnie and Clyde was,  you know, she couldn't see nothing so she didn't know who it was.
She- she thought- So they told where Bonnie and Clyde was.
And then the man left the room he just wanted to know where Bonnie and Clyde was,  so after he knew who Bonnie and Clyde was-  after he knew who Bonnie and Clyde was they um,  And then you know they tried to catch her,  and then-  and then-  then Bonnie and Clyde went to another house, and you know- And then um-  and then you know they tried- they tried to be civilized people again,  cause they didn't want- they didn't wanna get killed,  so,  the boy named T.W.
his father  um,  his father was-  was um, mad at him, and so he told his fa- he told them, to come on- he told his brother um, he told his son to come on, and so he wouldn't get hurt, so T.W.
didn't die.
So um, T.W.
had to tell his father where-  where Bonnie and Clyde was and he told the police.
And you know Bonnie and Clyde, they were- they were um  they were in this pic-  You know they went- they w- they was going to a picnic area,  and then um,  they didn't make it  because,  police was all in the bushes and stuff.
And um,  the- T.W.'s father,  you know they didn't kill him yet.
So T.W.'s father w- was un-  was in the car,  he said the car couldn't stop so Bonnie  got out and start helping him trying to get it fixed.
And then um, and then the man screamed now.
So the man,  the man got under the car and then  they shot Bonnie and Clyde all up.
And then he was- he was going back like that and Bonnie was all on the ground, Clyde was in-  Clyde was on the ground, Bonnie was all in the car  and they had about a thousand bullet holes in them.
So, that's the end.
And they got 'em.
Yeah.
No.
Some of 'em I hang with girl,  I hang out with a lot of people.
I don't h- I just hang a lot with-  at night time.
Cause in the day I be over to church.
With the NYC  workers over there.
Some-  The girl I hang with most is RD-NAME-2 she's seventeen.
And I hang out with my sister,  she's fifteen.
And her- RD-NAME-2, her little sister  is  ten I think so.
Her and my little sister always play together so I hang out with a girl my age  in the day time named RD-NAME-2.
Yeah.
The one they- the one that's seventeen.
So we was playing reform school one day.
So, you know she had to beat us cause we was all bad and stuff,  and you know we said that we  killed the old lady and stuff.
That's how we play and you know then she took a ruler, start hitting us and stuff.
And you know, then um, we was over the park,  so,  you know she made us do all kind of things.
And then that was real fun playing reform school.
And we had a um, dancing  club.
And you know we-  we used to sing for churches and stuff.
And    dance-  dance for um,  talent shows.
Yeah.
Everybody always listen to her and she s- and then  a girl named RD-NAME-2 she said, let's play reform school,  so the girl named RD-NAME-2 said, okay.
You know she had to be the-  the um,  leader cause she's older.
Yeah.
Well,  see um,  it's a lot of kids they p- they wanna play they can play.
You know she be the um,  something like the-  the police.
You know then you know they bring us out in the streets,  and then-  and then you know she said that you killed the old lady, pushed the lady across the street.
Um  did a lot of bad things to people,  so we had to go to reform school.
And um,  we had to do a lot of things  like,  drink water,  drink a lot of water and you can't stop.
You know we can't do it then um,  then she hit us with the switch.
And I do all of it cause I dont wanna get hit.
And then we played reform school at her house one day.
Let me see,  we had the-  we-  It was something like school but badder.
And we had to um,  you know read books and stuff.
And if you- you um, make one  bad move  and then you know she hit you with a switch and put you in a corner.
No.
See we have a club and you know you have-  And um,  we gonna have a band soon.
And um, you know, if you wanna be in it,  she said you have to  go downtown with one  high heel on and one tennis shoe on.
And,  p- wear your hair in rollers and stuff.
Do a lot of bad things, and stupid things and go downtown.
And  one girl- she made a girl  go downtown with her slip on.
And she went too.
Mm,  school teacher.
My cousins they want me to be in a singer group with 'em but I don't wanna sing in a group.
No, not-  not that much.
My brother said you have to start off when you-  when you young.
My brother h- he um,  he's seventeen but my cousins they around eighteen nineteen,  and you know they getting up a band,  and you know,  I don't know-  I don't know the name of their group called,  but you know they starting off too.
Being singers.
I don't know.
Mm I'd buy a house and cars and stuff.
And  TVs and  and so- and give some to my mother and father.
And my-  and my uncles and stuff.
And then    I'd go on a lot of trips  and  buy a lot of clothes,  and a lot of stuff.
Mm.
Mm.
When I go to amusement parks and  Coney Island and stuff.
Sometimes I think I'm not gonna make it so-  And I be saying I'll be glad when I get there.
I was happy when I went to camp too, for two weeks.
And we had a lot of fun there.
See my mother and father they know that we don't know  Santa Claus,  so um- so my um-  so they told my sister there's no Santa C- Santa Claus,  and she around ten,  yeah she ten,  and um so  she asked us what we want.
So  we tell her what we want.
I didn't want much this  last Christmas, I just got a  sewing kit and  a game called Twister.
And m- my sister didn't want much, nobody didn't want much but  my young brother, all he wanted was- he got a drum set.
And my other brother I don't know  he got a game with uh  seventy five-  He got  a thing with seventy five games in it.
And my big brother got tape recorder.
I got one too.
Almost everybody want- around our way got tape recorders.
The-  Um, my brother got two of 'em.
Two tape recorders.
He got one last last year- last last last year, And I got one the next year then he got one this year.
Yeah.