Oh  usual kid games rope,  jacks.
What do you mean?
Whether it was long or short how many people or?
How do you play jacks?
You've got to be joking.
Well, uh  You have- usually you have ten jacks and a ball.
And there are two wayses.
What you call long and a short way.
What's the long way is you throw the ten jacks up and-  You  pick up one jack at a time, and the next time you throw in line you pick two jacks at a time and so on until you  pick up all ten.
And the short way is you throw all ten down and pick up one and throw it back down and pick up two,  throw it back down and pick up three  and so forth  and so on.
Then you make the game whatever you want.
Ten games, twenty games.
Oh.
What did I say?
I finished talking about jacks.
Oh I didn't do too much of that.
You hide and you seek.
That's about the size of it .
Somebody was it,  and the rest of you here,  and he would try to find you.
Whoever was the last person he found was it the next time.
Oh,  I can't remember, whatever it was.
Oh well I played that til I was about 12 or 13 years old.
Ah you have one person  who's  it  as they say  and um,  they'll say uh Johnny,  take  three giant steps.
And before Johnny takes these giant steps, he's supposed to say Mother May I.
And then if he doesn't  he has to go all the way back.
Start all over again.
And whoever gets up to it first  is the next it.
That's right.
I don't jump rope.
Well,  we could play uh-   well we used to play D-I-S-H  and double dutch and of course then there's um-  Oh what was it I was saying?
Mm.
I mean I know  You have just a single rope, and you jump in and out, and you say a little rhyme, but I can't  remember what the rhyme is, you know.
Of course if you miss then you have to take the end.
Oh I like jacks the best.
No, not really.
I just like to sit down like  I could play jacks all day long.
Well I've  got more in the habit of watching television  since I've been older  more so than when I was younger cause I was outside most of the time, you know, playing with the other kids.
But  now  that's all I do most of the time is watch television  Anything that comes on.
Well the only thing I keep up with of course is Peyton Place.
Who doesn't?
No I'm not lying.
I now I'll tell you I don't miss Peyton Place.
But I couldn't tell you what happened Monday night  today, now I could tell you Tuesday morning.
Well Monday night  you know.
But it- it- Well nothing much, there's a new girl in the area  named uh Jill and she brought a baby into town that she said was Allison's,  and they gave the baby to Allison's parents  but  everybody,  well the doctor knows  that the child is hers  and his brother's.
Yeah his brother's come into the picture too now, and he was in an automobile accident.
Stay in hospital for awhile,  that's awhile, now he's staying with Doctor Rossi.
And he's kind of giving the girl a hard time because  she knows about some trouble he was in in New York and he's afraid that she's gonna tell somebody about it so uh  he's really  find a hard time.
He keeps pestering her and everything you know, and  he roughed her up one night and she went running to Rodney, he's trying to stay away from her cause he doesn't want Betty to get the wrong idea.
Oh, it's  just a mess.
A pure mess.
Then Rita's running to the uh  minister.
to tell about Reverend Winter.
Yeah, he's new.
Oh, well you're really behind, you know.
Reverend Winter's wife is an alcoholic.
She is definitely a alcoholic you know, so uh  but she's very active in the uh  church, you know, she's  going around soliciting funds for  a new wing for the hospital.
She- she's  seems to be pretty good at it.
She's getting everybody to give time and money, which is pretty hard.
She's making out okay.
And other than that, I don't um- Oh well let's see.
Well Monday nights I work til 9, so I don't usually see anything but Peyton Place and uh  I Spy.
Crazy about that, don't miss that either.
Tuesdays um  if I stay awake long enough.
I usually start  Ga- Garrison's Gorillas  and it takes a  then I turn to the movie.
By that time it's 11 o'clock.
Then I watch Perry Mason.
I usually fall asleep on that, I never see the end.
Never know who did it.
Wednesdays,  Wednesdays there's nothing much on TV.
It's all back in  I don't know what I watch on Wednesdays, Thursdays I don't get home til 9:30 either.
And I watch  the second part of Peyton Place.
Then I think I usually go to sleep after that.
Friday I watch  the Wild Wild West.
And, oh- Operation Entertainment.
That's very good.
And The Guns of Will Sonnett  and um  Judd for the Defense.
Then I'm-  I'm going out then.
And I work on Saturdays so  I  see very little television on Saturdays because I come home and  shower and  do a little straightening up.
Then it's time to go out again, you know.
Um  Sunday's usually day of rest, you know, washing and all that stuff.
And then it's back to Monday again, same old routine, you know.
No I can't say.
Can't say that I do.
I like them all.
I usually go to sleep on them anyway so  Not too much.
I uh, went to the drive-in  Pss- Sunday,  saw The President's Analyst in El Dorado.
Uh  it was  a rather good movie.
The uh-  The Analyst was played by  James Coburn.
And  he had a very good practice in New York.
And Godfrey Cambridge was in it, too and he was one of his patients  but they named- now they had a group called  the CEA  and the FBR.
You know, taken from the CIA and the FBI.
So, uh  Godfrey Cambridge was in the  CEA  and he told the good doctor that uh  the president needed an analyst and he had been picked.
So he flew to  Washington, but  before he went  he had a girlfriend.
He tried to get her to marry him.
But  um  she said that she would-she just couldn't take it.
She tried it once, and it didn't work out.
and she just didn't want to go through that again, but she would live with him in Washington  but she wouldn't marry him, just to see how it worked out.
And if it worked out okay,  then she would marry him cause she really was in love with him.
So they went to Washington.
But  come to find out  the doctor talked in his sleep.
And uh  he was giving  away information that he shouldn't.
So they moved her out into a hotel.
Um, they gave the impression that she was  sort of a spy because  when he called, she had taped his  voice and everything, what he said, and then she  sent it to whoever  she was supposed to.
And um  and then  he became a nervous wreck because the president was calling him all hours of the night,  any old time you know.
He would be with a patient,  and then that red light would come on, and he'd have to go to the president.
So he finally devised a plan where he'd get out  and he went into the part of the white house where the tourists were, and he had one of the tourists take him home with them.
Well the little boy had a-  a spy kit,  and he heard  him calling  uh, New York  to his analyst.
And the little boy called the-  S- I guess he called  the FBR,  and they came out looking for him.
And everybody warned him of course, because he knew all the president's secrets, and they had  Chinese,  uh, Russian,  German,  African  and some other I don't what he was.
And they were all out looking for him  But the best- and then he  uh  he was running away from them.
They tried to  uh shoot a dart in, in with some paralyzing  gas or something,  and he ran into this hippie joint,  and then they took him on with them.
And uh, while he was out in the field with this girl  everybody was coming up  behind him.
Well one would come, and then the next agent would kill him off then he would  go on and then another agent would kill him off til finally  the last agent that got up there was a friend of Godfrey Cambridge.
And by the time he got up to them  they were leaving so he didn't get him either.
But  they really gave him merry chase  but, and then he wound up at the telephone company.
Got him.
And when he got down to this place where the telephone company was  it was um  a dummy  that  had recordings coming out  from him.
But he didn't know it at the time.
And everything was computers and he was showing them what the telephone company did  and how  the-  it operated,  and why it was important to pay your bill and this and that.
Well  Godfrey came to his friend,  broke into the place  and they got him out.
They were trying to drive him crazy in there too.
And they got him out,  and he had never used a gun before, and he didn't want to but he had to  uh, defend  them  while they  blew up the place.
So he finally, he- he got straight on the gun, and he killed off everybody and jumped through the smoke screaming everything, just shooting  everybody.
So they fine- they got out in time and  well then it  broke back to his house  when  everybody was friends then, and he and the girl had gotten married.
And the president  had a regular hour now  now  so that it wouldn't  interfere with his other work.
And  they had a little party and  that was the end.
It turned out  very good for everybody, I hope .
It was really weird, you know .
Um.
No.
I had some fish but my husband took them.
Which high school?
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Mm-hm.
College Preparatory.
Oh you know, all your maths and your science   Started out with  elementary algebra, geometry, college algebra, trigonometry, and your chemistry.
Course your English and  the other basic subjects.
I had a little typing.
I  got all my college  courses out the way so that I could take a little business courses.
The usual thing.
Ride home  and, well  start dinner,  a little homework,  maybe a little TV, you know,  your favorite old stories.
And then it was to bed.
No.
Most of my teachers were very good.
Mm, excuse me.
I think my teacher was my math teacher.
I don't know, she was just  a nice  person, you know.
If you had any problems  you could always go to her any time of the day, you know and she would be  very willing to help you.
But other than that- Pretty good.
Not bad.
Not to really um  Well  I uh,  always liked- math was always my favorite subject.
I don't know why.
Cause my mother was  rotten.
So was my father.
But math was always my favorite subject, and I just took to it  you know.
Yes, I think my geometry teacher.
He was-  he was German,  if I'm not mistaken.
But the one thing about him, like  he would allow a certain amount of time for each  subject in his course you know.
And um if you didn't  know the subject in that allotted time, that was just too bad.
He was not going over it again.
So you may as well hang up, you know.
Yeah you need some extra help, you know.
Not him.
He told me one time  well I have allotted  allotted  all the time that I am going to allow for this,  and I'm sorry.
I said well, excuse me.
Nothing I could do about it truly.
So we went on to the next.
Mm-hm.
Mm, not really I had one,  well I guess you could say  good  girlfriend  in high school  but other than that I didn't have any particular group that I went around with.
I don't know, we just  you know, hit it off.
We just  went around.
Mostly in school.
Well I mean if they're interested in the same things that I'm interested, and we can talk to each other.
Mm, I guess that's about it.
And we're still good friends, I'm  uh  her daughter's God Mother.
But I mean it's just  that she and I  were very good friends.
You know we could just talk to each other about boyfriends and any problems, anything we had Oh yes, you're talking about my party group.
my party group   It's  let me see it's about, um,  most of the time it's about three girls  and one fella.
We are branching out now, that's-  that was the usual group bout,  five of us that usually party together.
Now we uh  well,  now the girls are finding boyfriends and the fellas find girlfriends but we still party together but we just get there  at different times.
Before we were all going together in the same car.
But uh  well now  course everybody's with their boyfriend or girlfriend you know so you  meet  at the first party and then from then on you go  together.
Well no, we would just call around and say well  do you know where the party is?
Well all of us would try to find the party, and then we would just decide which one we were going to first.
Then maybe after we got to that party, we may not even go to any of the other parties we had.
Or somebody would be at some different one,  or we'll  try this one, this-  this one sounds more interesting.
And we would just  you know  ad lib.
Take it as a comes, you know.
No.
Mm-hm.
Not that I know of.
In our party group?
Well uh I-  I have been to parties  with them,  but uh  I mean there's none that we particularly go around with.
Of course  I mean it's no different.
When you get there, they just like anybody else, you know.
You can dance if you want to, talk if you want to, whatever.
Makes no difference.
No.
Yes.
I really don't believe in it.
No.
Mm-mm.
About Black Power?
Well, I-  I don't uh  believe in the philosophy of Stokely Carmichael and Rap Brown sees it.
I mean I feel that  you shouldn't set up a certain community for anyone based on people.
They should all live as they want to, where they want to.
I mean it uh  it's not gonna hurt anybody if you live next door to a-  a Jewish person or a white person.
You get along as people  Just like I went to see uh Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,  and I thought that picture was  very good.
I mean it really  had a good point to it.
And the  thing that impressed me most  was when Sydney Poitier told his father  that he does not consider himself a colored man.
He considers himself a man.
And that's the way I feel  Like I-  and it makes me mad I wh- when I hear them talk  on the radio, TV, I could just  choke them.
You know, it-  it-  just like they talking about w-you know burn up these  riot  torn streets here.
And they want them to all be owned  by colored people.
To me,  they're not ready.
They don't-they don't know how to run a business,  and they-  when they burn those places and riot, they did nothing but hurt themselves cause that's where they live.
That's the people that they dealt with.
What?
It might.
Yeah but see,  the one, if they were going-  if this was the philosophy-  philosophy they were going under,  why didn't they come down here?
Downtown?
And get this man down here.
He's the one that's got the money.
These people that they are dealing with, these are the only people that can get credit.
This is the only place that they can go to buy the things that they need.
These people downtown are not gonna give them any credit because they don't have the kind of job  that they can usually pay  pay for.
Why-    Oh it just-  But like I said, I mean  if they gonna hit this-  hit the man in his pocketbook,  they didn't do it up there  because all they did they really hurt themselves.
And then if-  to me,  I really-  from what I heard on the radio and the television and everything-  I came down here that Saturday after the riots,  and I thought this place was gonna be in shambles because  Friday  I was right in the middle of this stuff they been having over here with Seventh Street.
I had gone out to get lunch.
And they came up the street, and they  threw some bricks in Lansburgh's.
Of course by the time they got down here, Hecht's was all boarded up.
So they chased them down this end.
Of course we got off early,  and I was home,  and all I heard was what was on the radio and the television.
And I came down here-   Okay.
No.
I talk with my hands.
But   Oh, over there?
Well I have a really soft voice anyway you know  Mm.
Uh  well.
Oh.
I can tell you something I would not have done,  and that is get married .
But other than that, I uh,  don't see anything that I wouldn't mind going through again.
But other than that- Well I  would have tried to  get  to finish college.
Other than that  everything is fine.
Mm-hm.
You know every time someone asks me that  and I give them my answer, they are truly astonished.
Cause I was talking to this fella the other night, and he asked me what my goals were in life, and I told him nothing.
At this moment.
Now he says,  well do you have everything that you want?
I told him no.
I said but if I get it,  I do.
And if I don't,  it's not going to hurt me.
Because I mean- I  it's just the way I feel about life at the moment, I mean  maybe  next couple of months it might change.
And there's sort of like a slump there, you know so.
Oh, well no.
That's-  we've been separated for over a year now.
You know that uh- it's just the way I feel about it.
I live each day as it comes.
I don't make any plans.
I've tried that,  and they all fell through.
So there's no sense in me getting hurt unnecessarily So I just take it as it comes.