Softball.
Mm,  that was about it.
Other than just uh, you know, smaller games in the classroom  like picking up sticks  and rolling the ball, you know, to see  who could catch the ball the most out of  uh, ten children.
Or  word games.
You know just simple things like that.
Making words out of-  making smaller words out of, you know, larger words that we  could pick out like  my, yours, I,  he,  him, her.
The straight thing.
Oh at home, usually it was just putting puzzles together, trying to read- you know, and see who could read the best  out of the three children.
Softball,  football   Yes.
It was- it was  you know,  inspiring to try to beat the boys playing.
Sure, I loved it.
Hide and Seek.
Oh, I didn't play that until I was about-  I guess about ten years old  because the boys were so rough, you know.
And every time the girls would try to hide, usually one of the girls would get hurt, so we just never did bother to play it.
Til I was about ten years old, but it was a pretty interesting game cause the majority of 'em wanted to cheat.
Well, normally they would just give you a small  hiding range, you know, where you could hide, but you couldn't hide but so far away from  what they call, home base.
And normally you had two or three that would cheat,  but- Right, farther out and then that would cause him not to get caught because they would be looking for him in the closer place, and while they was looking for him in a closer place, then normally they would get back.
Uh-huh.
Well you take the-  Well some children, they count from one to ten and some count  from five to a hundred, you know, in- in the consecutive five numbers.
And  you have from five to hundred or from one to ten to hide.
And if you are caught  still trying to find a place to hide, then you automatically out,  but if you get a chance to hide-  If they see you before you get back to home base,  they'll call your name and say that you are out.
But if you're still left out at the end,  and they can't find you,  then you win, but all those that are out, they have to come and stay until the rest are found.
It's just the caller.
Normally, you just get together, and whoever decides they want to do it, does.
No.
Or just- just more or less just baby rhymes.
Right, well whenever my children were smaller,  I could-  Those that I didn't remember- Normally I bought, you know, the rhyme books and just taught them to read those.
Yeah.
I'm gonna say Tag.
I don't know too much about that because I never played it.
Just like they do now.
We were always- The girls were always trying to out kick the boys, you know.
But we didn't have to worry about running with the football.
You know it was just that  we would kick the ball and someone on the other end would,  you know,  be there, intercept the ball, or  just let it go.
Right now as much as I possibly can.
That's about all I can do.
All the soap operas.
Oh,  right now?
The Search for Tomorrow.
Nice question.
Well,  right now, they uh,  if it- Getting ready to have a wedding.
Um,  it's a lawyer and his girlfriend's getting married.
But uh,  his girlfriend's  niece  was supposed to get married.
She was getting married to a doctor, and the doctor's mother  kept interfering into his life  because she had a background that she didn't want him to know about.
She had um-  In the past, whenever they were babies, she had a set of twins,  and one of the  boy- They were both boys, and one of the boys got burned up in a fire.
And while he was getting burned up in a fire, she was out with another man and her husband was at home  taking care of the children,  and the other man's wife found out where they were gonna be, so she called  and he wen- he and the other woman went  over to this  hotel room  and  found 'em together.
And by the time he got back home, one of the kids had burned to death.
Yeah, As the World Turns.
Pretty good one.
I didn't even see that yesterday.
That can't go well.
Oh.
Love of Life, I saw that yesterday,  I think.
Uh, let's see.
On that one,  the-  It seems that right now, the main thing is  for the step daughter to  try to run her    step mother away from the house.
She  has always been- Ever since I've been watching it, she's always been one to  you know, keep something going between the mother and father she possibly could.
But the father normally doesn't listen to her because she has  been in a-    a home, you know, for disturbed  children.
And uh, since she has been back this time, she remarried her first husband.
And now she's left the first husband,  and the child.
And she's back with her father and step mother.
So now she's trying to break up her step mother and step father-  And her step mother,  uh, for  a pyschiatrist  at the school where he is the Dean of.
So,  she's still working at it.
She hasn't succeeded, but she's still trying.
Uh,  the last movie I can remember seeing I think was Gone with the Wind  and that's been a many many years ago.
I don't think I've been to a movie in about-  in about fifteen years.
Mm.
Just about.
I can't  remember  which ones I've seen that really impressed me cause usually, whenever I start watcing movies on  TV,  they've already started, and I just get in the middle of them.
Not right off hand, I don't.
We had him about-  I guess we had him just about a  month,  and then  he had been outside  twice before- That was the third time we had ever let him out.
But all the kids were out on the front, and my mother was out on the front.
And he was out there playing with 'em,  and he ran up the street and came back.
And then,  he ran up the street again, and I came upstairs,  and just as soon as I got upstairs, one of the kids sc-  called me,  and said that the lady said for me to come there, said somebody had killed  the puppy.
By the time that I got down there, the lady had already called the police,  and uh,  she told me that she had called the police.
And said that the boy just took the dog and deliberately wrung his neck.
RD-NAME-2 I believe.
Uh, what did we call him?
Called him-   Oh I don't even remember what we called him.
Uh,  there was a friend of ours that lived out on U Street.
She had came around here  and we were calling him Blackie.
And she had  a dog once, and she had a name for her dog.
So she told us what her dog's name was, and I don't even remember,  but uh, we started calling the dog by the name that she had for her dog, so  the dog responded to that name,  you know much better  than he did Blackie, so  we kept the name for her, you know, until she got killed.
Last month.
R- Uh-  When we got her, yeah, she was about  the same size  that she is right now.
Missy.
Both.
None that I know of.
No more than she will pay attention to you once in awhile.
But I think the main thing is that she has to get accustomed to the children, you know.
And to the house.
Where we got her from,  they had  three or four children, ya- you know.
And they didn't have too much of this going in and out like I have here.
Because normally I'll let the kids come up here and look at television.
You know, rather than for mine to be out there on the street.
Yeah, one of- uh- the kids wanted to get after somebody, normally she'll take off and start running.
But that's in the house.
Fight.
Well you found a few that would fight, and the majority of 'em  would uh, go home, you know, so they could congregate at the soda shop  you know, later.
Because we had one right in the neighborhood-  Well, as a matter of fact, it was on the same street, you know, so  normally we'd save our lunch money.
Instead of eating lunch at school and just go over there, you know.
And buy us a soda and some cookies or something, just sit around.
Normally because somebody in the classroom had told on somebody sitting up talking or throwing bubble gum.
Sticking thumbtacks in people's seats.
Or pulling girls' hair or  some of the boys would say they like this girl, and another boy would come up and say well he like her.
And then  some of the boys would like to fight- you know, like to beat on the girls because they wouldn't take up time to talk to them, which is still going on.
T- Yes.
They just-  Uh, nowadays I think  it's uh,  more out in the open, you know,  because  in- in-  in my childhood,  normally if they did these things, you know they sneak around and do 'em like coming from school or waiting til it get dark.
But nowadays, the kids don't really care, I don't think.
I had a teacher that was very nervous.
But, uh,  after she was at the school about three years, they said that she had  TB.
You know?
And they thought that  this, you know,  probably came from  knowing that she had it, and she was possibly just irritated most of the time,  or else she just wanted to really take it out on the other children.
Anything.
Well normally if she didn't hear you,  you know, whenever she'd ask you a question, she would holler at you.
And then,  if you did answer her question, and you didn't answer it completely, she would holler at you.
So that's the reason why I say everything cause it didn't really matter  long as she could open her mouth.
get hollered at?
Yes, because I was always a soft talker,  you know?
And the only time I'd have anything to say was when somebody would say something to me.
Well during that time, I didn't think it was fair.
Well in some ways, now, I still don't think it was.
Because I feel like if you're in a class to learn, the best thing to do is keep your mouth closed so you can learn something.
You can't sit up and talk and- and listen to.
The best teacher I ever had, I didn't even know she was the best teacher until I-  my last year of s-  of high school.
I thought she was a snob the first-  Whenever I was in the ninth grade,  I thought she was a snob  because I went  back to North Carolina the last of the ninth grade,  and she was teaching English.
And everybody called her Mom, you know.
And I couldn't figure out why they called her Mom.
And after I got in the class, she was always, you know, talking to the girls.
She was more or less a girl counselor  So I thought she was about the worst person in the world, and then, you know, after she talked, and you know tried to teach us different things,  it took me about two years to really you know, catch on to what she was trying to do.
But  my last year of schooling I was in her English class,  and I thought she was a wonderful person.
You know, it was  just the way that she did things that made me think you know, that she wouldn't  be a nice person.
Then after-  Would- You know, I got in her class and I was able to understand  really what she was talking about, and I thought she was the best person, you know,  in the whole school.
I had a lot of those.
And that was mainly because they were all after me for the same reason  because I wouldn't talk louder.
You know, I wouldn't talk very much.
Cause I've always figured if you  ask a person a question, you know,  as long as they give you a reasonable answer, that's it.
Of a bad teacher?
Do you mean now or while I was in school?
Well now, a- what I would call a bad teacher is a teacher that  will  leave out of the building and sit right in front of the building, which I have seen recently,  drinking in front of the stud- and cursing in the classrooms and snatching on the children.
I don't dominate  a teacher for punishing a child because I think that is the only way they- you- that you are going to be able to get along with them.
You know, and be able to teach them anything.
But I do dominate one that  is always snatching on the children and slapping on 'em because I think there is a more decent way to punish a child.
Well whenever I was a kid, they just-  Well I didn't see any of the teachers doing this type thing.
If- if you were punished, which I thought was a pretty bad way of punishing a child  when I was coming up, was making them stand in a corner on one foot  you know, with their face toward the wall  or  having to  sit slumped over, which I thought was bad posture.
You know?
And this type thing.
That was in most classes, you know, in my younger-  in my younger  days like from the second to the fifth grades.
It was always they were putting thumbtacks in the seats or putting bubble gum in her seat.
You know, or writing something on the  blackboard  or taking her papers, hiding 'em.
And stealing the test papers and not really using them, just burning 'em up, you know, to keep from  having the class to take the tests.
Well they were furious.
If they couldn't find out who did it, everybody would have to stay in  for a lunch, and then after lunch, j-  you know after the evening classes, they would have to stay in  for a hour or so after school.
No.
No.
I was always- No, I was more or less always a loner.
I might would associate with one or two girls, you know.
But if I did it would be after I came home cause normally  during the lunch hour, I would spend most of my time in the lunch room.
Well usually there would always be two or three that were trouble makers.
And they would- they would uh, really call them leaders because the other girls were afraid of 'em.
Right.
If I could start all over?
Go back through school and be a nurse.
Yes.
It's what I'd still like to be.
A registered nurse.
Hospital.
Right.
Or a private practice isn't a bad thing.
You know, I'd like that.
Because- Well,  either way, if you were a hospital nurse, you could still take on private patients, you know.
Three years.
Oh,  just clean up the house.
Holler at the kids all day if they're home.
And try to keep up with my mother  because  she's-  Well she gets around real well but she's had six heart attacks, and  she  get up and we can get her dressed you know and everything.
Give her five minutes, she's  changed her clothes and she has 'em on backward and  then she can't find her shoes and this type thing, so  it's a full time job, you know, just trying to  more or less take care of her  with the children- They watch her.
You know, they help me to watch her.
So, it's not really as bad, you know, as it would be otherwise.
But right now, you- you know,  if I could get out and go to work, it would still be a hinderance to me because the kids will be going back to school, and then I would have to get somebody to stay here with her.
First thing would be to buy my children some clothes  and get them straighten- You know, and get them straightened out for school  and possibly buy me a home.
And then I would worry about transportation, but I wouldn't really you know, try to spend it all,  save some, you know  for something else but I think the main thing would be,  after getting the children straightened out for school, would be to  get my bills straightened out.
No more than make a will for my children to spend the rest of it .
And take care of my mother if she was the longest liver.
How would I improve things?
Well I think the first thing I would do is try to take care of the home front first.
Because we have so many people that-  that's hungry in the United States,  where they were sending the money other places that I think they could really use here.
I think that if it was in my power, I would make better laws  uh,  concerning children  you know, and their  times for being at home and  the limitations on what they would have to do.
Well just like a normal family,  only we-  most times we just don't have as much.
You know, but we're thankful for what we have.
Yes.
That's a  pretty hard question to answer.
Well when I was a child about the Christmas present that I could  remember getting was a pair of skates.
I thought that that was the most wonderful thing in the world.
Now, I had wanted a bicycle,  and then when I got the bicycle I didn't really want it.
But after I grew up,  I wanted a baby doll.
I was about sixteen years old, and I wanted a baby doll.
So,  finally I worked  you know, and  I was gonna get me a baby doll, but my mother she bought it for me.
And that surprised me because I didn't know she was gonna get it.
Right.
Stay up most of the night on Christmas Eve,  and you couldn't really sleep on Christmas day , So, you- Normally you're on Christmas Eve,  I would just cook,  you know.
And stay up.
I was in a car wreck  when I was  fifteen years old,  and I didn't really know what to think.
I wasn't hurt that bad- Well, my  right eye was  split,  you know, a little.
But uh,  the circumstances made me feel like I really wanted to be dead  because I was driving-  Well actually I had been driving since I was eight years old,  but I was driving and I didn't have any driver's license.
My mother was in the car,  and uh,  this taxi had run a red light  and run into us and knocked us into a telegram post.
And  I was conscious long enough to  tell my mother to swap seats with me, you know.
So that she wouldn't get in any trouble, but then after we swapped seats, I passed out,  you know.
And then  it had really jarred me because my head was upset.
I don't really know.
Sometime the next day.
No, I didn't stay in  I guess about five days  because  normally if I'm sick or something, it doesn't take me long to recuperate as long as they let me do it my way.
Well I think that's- that's all in the power of God.
And whichever way that  things are- whichever way that He would have things to go, that's the just the way they are going.
We can't predict what's going to happen, really.
Well I think that we can make plans for our lives, but  I sure think that when we make them for our lives, we should leave that in the hands of God too because  we never know what he has in store for us.