Well, most of the time, we used to play touch football in the alley.
It- it was me and three other guys.
Oh, well uh,  it was usually Reds and I on sides against  uh,  boy named Pooji, an Asian.
And we used to play in the alley about  forty yards long.
And we played until the sun went down.
No, we had four downs to make a t- make a touch down.
If we didn't, the other team got the ball.
Yes, if we completed three straight passes, we got a first down.
Used to play marbles.
I- I had a hundred something marbles and lost 'em all one day .
We  played Hide and Go Seek, but um,  wasn't too much fun so  we didn't play it too often.
Well, we used to run about  thirty yards to the tree, and the last man there was it.
No.
Oh yes, we used to flip cards um- It used to be about five of us in a game,  and we'd try to see who get the most cards in the hat.
I played basketball.
It's not my best sport, but I used to try.
I had uh  little trouble with shooting from the outside, but most of the time I'd pass off and play the pivot.
I played football mostly.
Well- I played  just about every position on the team except for quarterback and halfback cause I wasn't fast enough for halfback, and  I didn't want the responsibility of the quarterback.
But most of the time, I used to play tight end.
We used to go up to the Carter Brown  every Saturday  and play.
We started at about noon and play until dark.
Usually the game started out as two hand touch,  then  one of the guys would say, oh, I would have made it if we were playing tackle.
And then all of a sudden the game turned into tackle.
I had a good time.
We played kind of hard.
I remember one month, in about a three week period,  one boy got his collar bone broke, and another boy broke his leg, and another boy broke his arm.
But we had a lot of fun.
We used to-  Didn't make any difference who came up there.
Some  old fellas used to come from  Armstrong.
Bell, some football players uh, on the weekend, didn't have anything to do, so we used to have a real good game.
It  was always about thirty guys, so naturally the team was getting bigger than the average football team, about fifteen men on a side.
Well, the most exciting game  I played was- was in  February.
It was about thirty-five degrees, and  nobody had anything to do, so we decided we were going up and play some ball.
And uh,    after about two hours, the score was something like  thirty to  twelve.
We were playing neighborhood game.
They had- We played touch the week before, and they told us that they would beat us if we were playing tackle.
So we went up there, and I didn't get in until the fourth quarter,  but  we were behind thirty to twelve,  and after about  a hour,  in the fourth quarter,  uh, the score was forty eight to thirty six.
We'd a- We pulled ahead,  and we decided to call the game at five o'clock, and it was four thirty.
So we made one more touch down.
They made two, so that made it- What, fifty four to forty eight?
And they were on the two yard line when the clock ran out.
And that was about the best game we ever played.
Well,  I  used-  used to watch a lot.
I watch a lot now- now I'm  getting ready to get out the service and waiting for my discharge, but uh there are too many  quiz programs on.
I think there should be more educational programs on television.
Well,  let's see.
Among the uh,  I guess spy and espionage series, um,  Mission Impossible and It Takes a Thief are my best two,  and uh,  I like the educational programs that come on.
Uh,  different- They have different specials uh,  like uh,  last special I saw was Jacques Cousteau, the um,  underworld.
The world of Jacques Cousteau, and I thought that was interesting cause  really we know less about our under-  sea world than we  m- do about anything else.
I don't know- I've seen so many of I Spy.
Um,  I couldn't pick one as my favorite, but uh- No, I missed last week.
Can't see 'em all.
Well I-  my wife and I, we go to a lot of movies.
Uh,  matter of fact, we haven't gone in about a week or so because really  we haven't seen anything in the papers we- we'd like to go in and see but uh,  we saw The Graduate.
Mm.
Oh, The Graduate uh,  dealt with a  college student, just graduated, and he's coming- coming home.
And he gets involved with his neighbor's wife,  and uh,  I thought it was  very interesting.
Uh,  he-  Dustin Hoffman who played the graduate uh,  conveyed  the one emotion that I found is very hard to uh,  convey over the screen, and that's  being frightened to death, and yet trying to rem-  remain cool.
And uh,    well as the story went along uh, he found that  the  next door neighbor's wife finally seduced him as uh-  Take him to a hotel, and he spent most of the summer there.
But then he fell in love with-  with her daughter.
And she threatened to break 'em up,  cause she was gonna tell what happened, you know,  but he b- Uh,  beat her to the punch and told the daughter ahead of time.
And she sent him away,  and she was getting ready to get married, and he couldn't stand it, so he went,  broke up the wedding, and  took her on the bus, and went away.
And that's how the movie ended.
You never knew what happened after that.
Figured they went away and lived somewhere happily ever after, I guess.
Mm.
You asked me a loaded question.
I- I would say the-  The Graduate is- was r-  about  the best.
Valley of the Dolls wasn't too bad, but- It was about Hollywood and uh, the stars coming up and how  they have to keep going, getting about four hours of sleep so they take pet pills to  keep them going during the day.
Then they have to take  sleeping pills to get sleep- get to sleep at night.
And  they s- It shows how  people tryna make it to the top  using what they have.
Uh,  the s- story mainly dealt with these three different women,  and one made it  because she had a beautiful body.
She was a stripper, and sh- she performed in  movies uh, you know, sexy movies like they make overseas.
And another one made it on her beauty.
She uh,  did advertisements for uh-      She did advertisements for uh, cosmetics.
And the third one, who the picture was mainly about, uh, she made it on her talent.
She made it big in the Hollywood and Broadway.
And uh,  it showed uh,  the different reasons why they did what they did.
Uh, the woman who um,  made it on- because of her- her uh,  sex appeal,  she did it because her husband had gotten sick.
And uh, she needed the money.
And sh- That was the only talent she had was uh, to exhibit her body.
And the second one, she just  the- she just had what it took.
She was good looking, and uh,  they needed someone and  she liked the work, and just went on it.
And the other one just had talent.
She wanted to be a star.
That's all she thought of evidently, since she was a child.
So she went out and pushed hard  and made it to the top.
Well,  I think Gone with the Wind is the best.
Well, uh,  Gone with the Wind dealt with the  Pre- Civil War period through the Civil War, and then after the Civil War.
It dealt mainly with uh,  this man name uh, Red Butler was played by Clark Gable.
And um,  a girl uh, Scarlet O'Hara played by-  I believe it was Maria Sullivan.
And uh,  well,  um,  Maria Sullivan plays Scarlet O'Hara.
She-  she was,  I guess kind of good looking,  and she always had all the fellas, but sh- There was this one guy she couldn't get,  and she  put down all the others for him.
But then she fell in love with Red,  but she was still trying to get this other guy.
And uh,  well she f-  After about four or five years of Red trying to  a- uh, get her to marry him, she finally did, but she was still kind of in love with this other guy who she could never get.
But when his  wife died,  he told Scarlet that he couldn't uh-  He loved  his wife, and it would never be anything between them.
But all this time he had been leading her along, hoping that uh,  she could get him, but sh-  When she realized that uh,  she couldn't, tried to make it up with uh, Red Butler.
But uh,  by then uh,  Red Butler was full of jealousy and  just didn't believe her anymore cause he tried his best,  so he walked out on her.
But she was  so used- so spoiled and everything, she-  Instead of running out after him, she just said, well, tomorrow's another day,  and that's the way the picture ended.
Yes, it was about four hours long, but it's good.
No.
I'd like a pet.
I've-  When I- Before I got married, when I was living at home, my father had a little dog.
We called him Jab.
And uh,  I think of-  a household should have a pet.
A dog  you know, it- some- it-  makes a nice added ad-  addition to the family  outside of children.
I got married um,  nine months ago before I went over to the  Vietnam,  and I got-  I got injured over there and came back in September.
And I just got out the hospital a few months ago, so I'm  busy looking for a job right now and waiting for my discharge.
Well I guess to um-  It was exciting, but it wasn't  that exciting because I figured- Well, as far as I was concerned, once  I had made up my mind that I was going get married,  and I asked my fiancee and she had said yes,  The big thing was getting the date set.
And  I wasn't overly excited as they  depict in the movies, with uh,  people running around not knowing they're going to do.
Well once we had decided to get married, before I went over to Vietnam,  um,    it was nothing to do except uh,  get the uh,  ushers ready.
And  ask-  ask a good friend of mine uh,  to be my best man,  and then make  preparations, reservations on the planes and uh,  hotel reservations.
Uh, yes.
Um,  after the wedding,  we c- went over to my uh, in-laws for reception, and then after about a hour, went to the airport  and we had a hour wait for the plane,  so while I- my wife and I weren't looking, they filled both  bags full of rice, both our suitcases full of rice.
And, we didn't know until we got to New York, and we opened up the suitcases.
Rice fell out all over the place.
matter of fact, there's still some rice in my bags now .
My college?
Mm.
Well in  high school,  I studied  the regular courses, Math, English.
I- I like Math and Science  and Social Science.
Uh,  my best courses I guess were Algebra  and Geometry and-  and uh, little Trig, as far as Math was concerned, but I wasn't-  My- my-  The courses I really did the best in were Social Science, History,  United States History, Government, and Economics.
Well um,    History  gave me uh,   better knowledge of-  of the country I live in,  and uh, what brought it about.
Uh, the men who were responsible for it,  what ordeals  our ancestors had to go through to make the country what it is today.
And Government gave me a  better idea of how-    h- how's  the  institution works.
Um,  what  laws have to go through to get passed.
How um,  say taxation bills are brought forth,  what powers the President, the Legislative, and the Executive- um, the Judicial body have.
And um,  just a general knowledge  uh-  of our  government today.
Well Economics,  it taught me how  business is run, how government  controls business, um,  how a s-  person  wh- maybe who's not so rich,  can  use his money to the best of his ability.
Well,    when I was in  grade school,  I used to have to come home every day and be home by three thirty.
And then I get permission from my grandmother to go out.
I don't-  We usually shot marbles,  played football,  or maybe I get my scooter out or my wagon, just ride around.
But when I got  about the sixth grade or-  I-  First year in junior high school,  we started playing football just about every day after school.
And f- from September through April,  and then  when the baseball season really got under way,  we'd go down to the playground and play softball.
But it w-   wasn't too much homework to do.
Cause usually I tried to do it before I went out, if it was a whole lot.
I'd go out because I'd been sitting down all day, and I didn't feel like doing any homework when I  came d- home from school, so I  go out and exercise, play for a couple hours, then come back,  eat dinner and then do my homework later.
We never had  any that hollered,  least I didn't.
But uh,  we had a few that used to get on your nerves.
Like I was always the trouble maker in the classroom.
And uh,  whenever anything happened, the teacher would automatically call on me.
Well one day,  I was sitting  last person in the row,  and someone was talking, and she automatically accused me, and she hadn't even looked  around to see who it was.
So she told me how impolite I was, and I told her that she was impolite for accu- for accusing me of talking  without even  turning around to see if it was me.
It just happened to be one of the those times when I wasn't talking,  so  I got up and moved to the back of the room.
But that was the only teacher- it was my French teacher, that I really had any trouble with.
I don't think she was fair.
I mean just because  a person has a record, I- I know now that  they uh, automatically come to you.,  but I think you ought to give a person benefit of the doubt and least look around and see who it is before you come accusing blindly.
Mm,  the best teacher I ever had was my  History, Government, Economics teacher, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
She-  Well she taught well.
She encouraged you to  think for yourself,  and she was the only teacher I ever had that  commanded the room.
She had complete respect.
If someone was talking, she would never holler.
Only thing she would do was tap the eraser on the desk- Now, you know how quiet that is,  but the room would instantly  sounds down,  and she could go on with her lessons.
Everybody in the classroom had respect for her I don't know- She's- Uh, unlike most teachers today, she seemed to have a  genuine interest in the kid-  She wanted them to learn,  to understand, and then commun- uh, communicate  to the other  pupils in the room uh,   what they knew, thereby uh,  maybe  other people would understand something b-  that might've-  they might not ev- have even thought of.
And that's what made her a real- a really good teacher.
Uh, when I was in the Army, I found- I heard an expression that she often used,  um, the only question  that's a dumb question, is a question that is not asked.
I've had several.
I don't know.
They just- they seemed to be hostile.
They uh, conveyed the uh,  idea that they had theirs, and you have to get yours, instead of- It didn't seem to have an interest.
It seemed like it was just a job to them to come from nine to three or from eight thirty to three thirty, whatever the time was.
And uh,  they didn't really give a damn-    about uh,  the students as such.
They were there to do their job, and that was it.
And you-  it- u- Several of the teachers I had, it didn't matter  your work,  not the quality of the work.
It mattered if you  talked in class or didn't talk in class.
And to me, that doesn't have anything to do with your education.
If you get a A- If you a A student, as I was in one class, and you talked a lot  so she gives you a B,  that doesn't give anyone any incentive.
M-  In my-  one of my classes in junior high school, I had a straight A average  in History, but she gave me a B because I talked too much.
Yet, there's another side of report card that says,  conduct in class, and you-  and she marked me down for that too.
It seems like  if she was gonna mark me fairly, she woulda given me a A, and then marked me down on the other side, but she did both.
Oh yes, we used to-  The teachers we didn't like, we pulled some rotten tricks on 'em.
One day I remember, it was the last day of school-  This was in grade school,  and  the teacher came in late.
She was about- It was about ten after nine when she came in.
So we decided we were gonna put a tack in her chair.
And she came in all upset, sat right down and got right back up .
She couldn't catch anybody but uh,   she gave the trouble makers in the classroom a stiff warning.
I got caught plenty of times, especially in grade school because from the first through the fifth grade, I was in classrooms with  teachers that knew my mother.
Because my mother went to DC Teachers and most of them did too.
So they used to  try to correct me and make me the model  student in the classroom.
And I wouldn't have any part of it.
I mean, you know kids that age, they're mischievous.
I was one of 'em, maybe a little bit more mischievous than the rest, but    that's  life.
Well um,  now that I'm married, th-  the group has cut down some, but  before  RD-NAME-4 and uh,  RD-NAME-3, I used to hang around with a lot.
RD-NAME-2 was my best man at my wedding.
And,  well, we didn't see too much of each other during  school.
I mean  after school  because we had our work to do.
RD-NAME-2 was more of a book worm than I was.
But during the summer,  RD-NAME-2 and I especially, we used to hang out,  and we used to  go to the pool a lot with uh, two other friends.
Boy named RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-2.
And we used to go up there every-  every day, until we found out what day the girls came up there.
And then we would only come on those days.
It was- No, I met my wife at a party.
Mm.
Well um,    I was going with this other girl at the time .
And uh,  she had called me up about this party  out on Cook Street,  but I had already been invited  to a party given to m-  given by an ex-girlfriend of mine.
And I was going to that one.
So,  it was on MacArthur Boulevard.
So, I went out there, and I couldn't find the place the first time.
And I drove all the way past MacArthur out to Glen Echo.
I said, I'm not giving up on this one.
I turned around and found the party.
And uh, when I came in the door, RD-NAME-2,  my wife, was sitting  right there as you come in you make a little right.
That's the first person I saw.
And I was introduced to her by my uh, ex girlfriend.
And  I went downstairs and  d-  to the party.
Once it started, s- b- see before that there was another party going on for the little kids- It was Halloween weekend.
And so, I started talking to her,  asked her her name, address, telephone number.
And she didn't have a ride home that night, so I  said I- I told her I'd take her home,  but uh,  she wouldn't go because  after all I was a stranger to her.
S- So uh,  she got one of the girlfriends there to  come with us and sh-  her girlfriend had a date.
So I took her home, and asked her could I call her the next day?
And she said yes.
And I did.
I'm been going with her ever since.
Yeah, left out some part- Yeah, left out some of the good parts, too.
Shut up.
Um, not to my knowing.
Uh, most of the  people like RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-1 are in uh, engineering.
And they didn't have to take any foreign languages or such.
Well uh,  let's see.
At o- at the office there's uh, RD-NAME-2.
I think she speaks a few African dialects.
And um,  let's see.
RD-NAME-2, he speaks-   What does he speak?
Spanish?
He speaks Spanish.
And I'm not too sure about the rest of 'em, but I-  I think-  Yeah, RD-NAME-2, he's a-  works down at the office with my wife-  I know he speaks a couple of foreign languages.
I'm not sure wh- what they are.
Well, not- Not usually um,  sometimes who-  whoever has the best ideas, that's what we do when we uh, meet.
Uh, there's no one that  you could say was actually the leader.
Well-  it would depend on you.
I mean uh,  we like- we like people who are full of fun,  you know, like to laugh and joke, kid around.
Yet, we don't want  any fool get into the group.
Somebody has a little,  you know, some common sense.
They-  Most of the  people that  I hang around with,  well,  that I still associate with,  uh,   are fun loving people.
I mean,  they like- They have to work and-  But when- After work, you know, we ready to party,  go out and have a good time.
We never want to sit around-  Well sometimes we do sit around discuss things, but most of the time we want to get out.
You know, go where the action is.
Uh,  mostly just,  uh, couple of new ones out that I don't know about, but I- Since I've come back, I-  I've picked up the ones uh,  that are currently the-  the rage around town.
The African Twist and Funky Broad- Well, Funky Broadway is kind of old now.
Even though, it's not-  not even about nine months old.
But it's kind of old now.
And Shing-a-ling.
It's getting old, but uh, when I came back it was relatively new.
I picked that up.
And the Sophisticated Sissy.
It's c- odd name, but uh,  it's a nice dance.
That's a good question.
I've never seen the Regular Sissy that-  differentiate between the two.
Well- As far as  being-  wanting to be  uh,    a programmer or a,  data uh, processing analysis, I wouldn't.
I would have studied harder  when I was in high school and especially when I was in college.
Uh, I think  I wouldn't have been- uh  the party boy that I was when I was in my teens because I've come to realize that studying and getting a good job  are more important than partying cause you can party anytime.
But you can't go to school and get a education  at any time because  once you get married,  you have to think about more than yourself.
You have to think about your family,  the children that you might have.
You have to provide for 'em.
So I would've studied harder.
Well,  first of all, I don't want all the money in the world.
Well, if they gave me some,  I think I would invest some,    I'd  buy  my wife some things that she wants.
And I'd buy myself some of the things I want.
And I would put some aside for uh,  well the investment naturally takes care of putting something aside for the family, but I'd put some more aside in bank accounts.
I probably would get myself an insurance policy, just in case something happened to me, I want my wife and my children to be uh, taken care of.
And    I want- the rest, I'd probably  just put it to-  to use, making more money.
Well, I guess  Christmas we more- like any other-  most-  like any other family, we uh,   have a Christmas dinner.
Usually, my mother has uh,  ham and turkey.
And the regular Christmas uh,  treats on hand, egg nog,  pies,  and uh,  we usually go over her house.
Or over to my mother-in-law's house.
It all depends, we alternate.
It would be either  Thanksgiving at  my in laws and Christmas over my parents, or vice versa.
So we  keep it spread out.
The neatest present I ever got was when I was eight years old,  and I got my first football.
Official, regulation size.
I always wanted it because I-  Well as you- you can gather from what I've said, I liked to play football.
So I got my first football when I was about eight.
And that was the neatest present of 'em- of them all.
And I think my next neatest one to that was a Mickey Mantle baseball bat.
Well, I had asked for it, and I was- I- Since I'm a only child, I figured I'd get it .
But uh,  it was not so much the surprise, but I was overjoyed when I got it.
I think about  two or three months later,  I lost it or it- it burst.
Mm-hm.
N- n- n-   N-  Really I can't say I was in  any  thing where I thought I was gonna die.
I've been in situations where I thought I might get hurt.
But uh,  I never been in a-  that dangerous of a situation where I thought,  This is it.
I'm gonna die.
I'm not coming back home, or I'm not gonna see tomorrow, or anything.
But uh,  I just  don't worry about it,  really, cause uh,  my philosophy is if you gonna die, you gonna die.
Now I don't believe in going out here and doing everything foolish,  make sure I'm'a die early,  but uh,  if it's gonna happen, what can you do about it?
I agree with them.
I b- I believe that you can take s- some insurance to  insure that it doesn't happen, but uh,  for the most part, you can never tell.
Like you hear uh,  just this weekend, there's a- It was a plane crash in the- South Africa and uh, uh, a hundred and twenty out of a hundred and twenty nine people died.
Well you got to figure, wasn't time for those other nine people to go because they didn't.
If a hundred and twenty died, it mu- it-  it- it wa- It was just their time was up,  and they were- They were destined to go.
You can never tell.
Everybody says I wouldn't fly cause the pilot might have a heart attack and  plane will fall in and it kill them.
But heck, you could get out of bed, and slip on something and break your neck.
You can never tell when you gonna die or how you gonna die.