Uh,  mostly basketball and uh,  I shoot a lot of pool.
Well uh,  what you want- I mean, what you wanna know?
W-  Well,  generally we play uh, playground ball and  we don't have a referee and  play- uh, make him take the- you know uh,  whoever make the point well they-  they take out  in the-  It's-  s-  it's different than uh, when you have a referee  cause uh,  you know, every- you have to be your own judge and  generally that's about it.
Oh we usually play uh, three  unless we running the whole court,  which consist of five on each team.
Well uh, we uh- usually-  we usually go to the foul line and uh  first two people make it uh, choose the teams and uh-  and uh, first two people choose the teams  and uh,  well then after you uh, choose your team, well then  we shoot again, see who takes out  first.
Then we can take on to the game.
Well uh, usually we uh,  lag to see who-  who's going to break.
And uh,  when we lag uh,  first one person shoots and see how  close they get to the cushion with the ball and  then the second person shoots.
And uh,  then we break and  first ball to go in it's either high or low,  then  just going    try knocking all the  high or the low whichever one you have.
I'm alright.
Not too much, I don't  particularly care- Well,  used to play a lot uh, uh, kickball and uh- Well,  when we play kickball,  we usually choose sides you know, we'll appoint people to choose sides and then uh,  you have one person on first,  second, and third base and uh,  you have a pitcher and  catcher and uh, rest are outfielders.
Usually have about- uh, say about seven on the team.
And uh,  the pitcher uh, rolls the ball to the person and  they kick the ball,  they run the base,  in order,  you know like from first to second,  third,  then come on in to home.
And uh,  you get three outs  and then uh, the other side goes.
Uh,  usually uh, you get three outs in  after  the three outs the other side goes up and  they exchange places with-  with the outfielders.
No I-  I didn't care for hide and go seek too much.
Yeah I used to play it sometimes.
No but I uh,  played a lot of four square.
Well that's a game- uh, four square is a game where uh,  have these four blocks in there,  lettered A, B, C, and D and uh,  A is uh, person who always serves the ball and  whenever  you know you  hit the ball like in volleyball  to each person's square and uh,  whatever goes out  you know hit your square and go out running,  you out the game and um,  you proceed on around like if  uh, somebody knocks the ball in A and he misses well then person in D takes A place and  person in uh, C takes B place so on around like that.
Then it goes on like that.
Well uh, we played uh,  baseball, so  I ain't particularly care for baseball too much either.
Guess because the Senators never won.
So I ain't care too much for baseball.
Well my favorite TV programs are  I Spy, High Chaparral,  Mission Impossible,  uh,    uh,  Les Crane,  sometimes Joe Pyne and uh I mean I don't look at- See usually uh, Mission Impossible come on the same time as  High Chaparral so I usually look at High Chaparral.
What, High Chaparral?
No I wasn't at home.
I went bowling.
Of High Chaparral?
One time uh,  Blue was-  There uh-  the story mostly consist of uh,  Buck Cannon his brother  uh,  John Cannon,  uh,  Blue which is  uh, John Cannon's son.
Manolito  is uh,  brother in-law,  Victoria  she's uh,  John Cannon's wife and  Manolito's sister.
And uh,  Sam and some more of the hands and uh-  One particular time uh, Buck left home and  he uh,  his-  he met this girl, he was getting ready to marry her.
But uh, there's a Indian raid and uh,  she was killed and  so Blue decided to come back with the family.
That was about it.
Of  High Chaparral?
Well uh,  the uh,  people in the High Chaparral-  the High Chaparral was originally a Indian Land and  the In- the Apaches are always you know  pulling raids on them, they're  constantly uh,  at war with them and  one particular time this Indian chief name  Nock-Ay-Del came down and they were trying to uh,  negotiate on some c- type of peace terms  but uh,  some of the other Indians didn't feel that uh, this the right way so they  attempted to uh, kill  Nock-Ay-Del and  blame it on the people  High Chaparral but uh,  they uh,  they weren't successful and uh-  But the peace term didn't uh,  go on because  too many of the other chiefs dif- disagreed with it.
So uh,  that was the end of the story.
Well I usually go- I go to movies  you know,  whenever I have the money.
I-  I like to go to the movies but uh,  I don't usually go too much unless there's a pic-  picture I'd like to see.
Uh,  mystery uh,  suspense and things like that.
Uh, the last movie I saw was uh, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.
Uh, I en-  I enjoyed it to a certain extent but uh,  to some-  some parts of the movies uh,  it just didn't seem very realistic.
And uh, those were the parts I didn't particularly care for.
But uh, for the most part uh, the movie was real good and  I think it was about  you know, true-  true to life as it could ever get.
But um,  a lot of pictures you find uh,  they're not too uh-  you know, realistic-  they uh,  the people  they play parts that uh  you know,  people couldn't possibly live  the type of life  like uh, James Bond pictures.
They're uh, lot of fun to look at but uh,  you know, they not too realistic.
It was a good part, he played a good part and uh,  I enjoyed it but uh,  for the most part you won't find a person uh,  you know,  that very well educated  in our society but uh-  If- it was a very good part and it was uh- he was believable though.
I still enjoyed it.
Negro society.
Uh,  our level of achievement isn't quite that high.
I don't think.
I mean  we have a lot of uh, successful people you find a lot of doctors and all but uh,  all the degrees and all the travel he did uh,  I don't think you could possibly do it in enough of time that he had.
I mean you know he was entirely too young if he was a little older.
About the movie?
I like Sidney Poitier.
Her parents I believe uh,  I really couldn't speak cause I don't know how  you know  generally white people are but uh, I believe-  from what I  you know, interpret them to be  they was about  as good of parents as you'll find they-  they  reacted uh,  as  I guess the  regular parents would  to the situation.
They weren't uh,  no kind of extremists.
So uh,  this  helped a lot in the picture.
Well uh, in- Favorite movie?
Well I don't have any favorite movie I like  just about all of 'em.
All the ones I go to see I enjoy.
Well if I don't ever get to see the previews uh,  I kind of listen around, you know.
See how everybody else response were to the movie.
Cause generally you know I like the same thing everybody else likes.
But if they say it's bad sometime I go see it just to see how bad it was.
And uh,  they say it's real good well I'll go to see it.
And sometime it doesn't turn out to be as good as I expected.
So uh,  if I hear about a movie I g- you usually judge by the uh, players that's gonna be in it.
The actors and actresses.
No I don't.
Live in apartment.
Yes when I used to live uh, in a house I had a pet, I had a dog.
Had several dogs.
Yes.
No I only had one  each time but uh, Um  w- dog I had the longest was  uh,    he was a mixed dog we  called him Shep.
Yeah, a mutt.
And uh, we called him Shep.
And uh,  he was a uh,  you know he was a real good watch dog, he wasn't very big but uh,  he used to go with me serving my papers and  you know  he wouldn't let anybody bother us or anything like that.
He could uh- he was a real good jumper,  he was fast.
And uh,  he used to bite a lot.
Used to bite a lot of people but uh, he was killed.
He got hit by a car.
A policeman.
So uh- Yeah.
And uh- Well I was serving my papers and uh,  he went out in the street,  he- the policeman had time to stop but he didn't so.
He went out in the street and  car hit him.
So I took him to the vet and everything,  but I never saw the man again, he gave me his name and everything but I never could get in  reach with him.
So they had to put him to sleep.
They put him to sleep.
Uh, I'm in draft engineering.
Uh- Well uh,  my courses here,  I take English,  uh,  government,  algebra two and trig and  uh,  chemistry.
Yes.
It's drafting engineering uh, it deals with uh,  you know, the building of homes and uh,  all the drawing of mechanical parts.
Yes it's the same field but uh, drafting is a more generalized field.
It's not uh, specialized in any particular way but uh,  it still deals with most of- all of 'em we uh,  here, with a instructor we have now Mr.
RD-NAME-2 uh,  we deal mostly with uh,  you know the building of houses, we don't go too much in uh, mechanics.
But uh,  he teaches a lot  of  you know the funda- basic fundamentals that we'll need  to uh,  further our education because uh,  we can't learn enough here.
So we have to go on but uh, usually the fellows who have gone on, go on to college say,  they're you know head of the- of a class.
So.
must have a pretty good shot.
I plan on going to college.
Yes I've put in uh, several applications.
One at uh RD-SCHOOL-2's Community College uh,  one to the RD-SCHOOL-4 College and one to the Technical Institute.
I don't wanna leave the city too much.
Well uh,  one I would like to have a college education.
And uh,  you know, just  just you know-  just to have it  for the education and  secondly uh,  from what I understand you know  really get a uh,  you know, respectable job you know one in which you can uh, be satisfied with or content with.
You know, financially and uh,  socially well,  you have to get a college education.
So.
I'm going.
My mother wants me to go.
Partially.
Kinda.
Kinda make me wanna go too.
Cause  you know,  she's a d-  She you know everything they do and so- so she went.
She said  you know,  she wished she could have finished, she didn't get a chance to finish.
So I'm'a go and  I'm'a finish I guess.
After school well,  I usually-  I used to  uh, go  play basketball or look at television or something but  here lately uh, I've been going to work.
I work at the art gallery.
RD-WORK-8.
Yes I'm- I'm a night guard.
Uh- I work from five to nine.
we change up into our  guard uniforms and We c- watch all the paintings, we change galleries every night and uh,    just watch the people and make sure they don't touch the paintings and uh,  keep a constant check  you know,  watch the room temperature and things like that.
Cause uh the paintings are very old and they uh,    Over temperature you know they destroy the uh,  quality of the paint  because  they t- t- you know so oh a lot of 'em have already start to  you know crack and grow and things so uh,  they keep the rooms at certain temperatures.
Uh, it was in the newspaper  and uh, brought the ad in, one of the fellas brought the ad in and so the placement counselor  he- it's about  ten fellas who go to school here work down there  so we all work down there.
I had one that uh-  but uh,   what do you mean by hollered?
You mean yell at you or- Well in   we have a teacher now, I like, Mr.
RD-NAME-2 my shop teacher uh,  he doesn't really holler  uh, no.
He gets his points over but I don't really have any teacher that holler.
I don't know, I don't really know, it's not ne-  I don't know, sometimes it's necessa- sometime he be kind of angry.
But uh, for the most part- He be kind of angry, you know.
But for the most part uh,  he'll just-  I guess his  quality of voice, he not really hollering.
just- just have a kind of heavy voice.
Kinda loud, to me.
It might not be ho- loud to you, though.
You know.
I think my third grade teacher  uh, Mrs.
RD-NAME-1.
When I used to go to  elementary school.
I like her the best.
She was uh, sh-  seemed to be you know,  closer to the students and uh,  seemed more likeable person and everything uh,  she teach school for a long time.
And she knew  you know, everything to do.
And she taught us Spanish and  we did a whole lot of things the other classes didn't do.
We really enjoyed ourself in the class.
Yes she did.
She used to fix things, you know we used to have a lot of uh,  creative  artwork to take home because uh,  you know she  used to  show us how to make  type of things that other people didn't.
Like uh,  pencil holders and things like that.
They weren't real hard to make or anything.
Yeah I'll talk a little louder.
Yes I did, one time.
That was last year though.
I don't have him anymore though.
I'm glad I don't have him.
Uh,  his methods of teaching   you know,  mostly him as a individual.
Cause  I don't know he didn't seem to uh,  know how to teach right.
Wasn't my type of teacher.
Yes I have uh, several friends uh,  one of- one goes to school with me and the others finished school.
Uh, there's usually about four of us.
There be uh two of 'em go to school here  and uh,  that I usually hang with uh,  I don't have-  I don't have- I ain't have a lot of friends but um,  in general I hang with uh,  two or three p- people in particular,  you know we go out a lot together.
Go to uh, parties, go bowling,  and uh,  play basketball together, do everything together, you know.
What you do.
What'd you say?
Oh no, we don't have no name you know, just call 'em  you know,  RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-1 and RD-NAME-1.
Those the three.
If- not if we like them.
I mean you know,  we associate with everybody but uh,  you know, everybody we just don't go with.
I mean they can come with us, we don't have no objections but uh,  certain things you know we just don't do with them.
Well we like a lot of same things and  we d- like to do the same things.
Guess that's just about it.
Yeah I guess it's- yeah, it's RD-NAME-2 I guess.
You know, he- I don't know, he always the leader.
I don't know.
I guess cause you know, he have leader qualities.
You know, everybody kind of looks up to him.
Looks down at him but looks up to him you know, he kind of short.
So uh,  I guess you know he's always- you know, he had leader qualities you know everybody always follow him, so.
You know, able to make  you know decisions or decide where to go and  you know, just able to  you know, make all the plans and everything.
And it usually work out, so you know, everybody else just follows.
No objections.
But nobody actually you know,  say, I'm the leader, you know, do like I say, but  you know, we all, you know kind of come to agreement.
You know he makes an idea we come to agreement.
But he'll go along with our program you know just like we go along with his.
Takes a little of both I guess  be a leader.
Yes I have several friends that speak foreign languages.
When I used to work in Hot Shop uh,  most of the people there uh, you know they were young  they go to college and  they speak several languages, you know.
And uh, my friends  like I've mentioned before RD-NAME-2, his sister speak uh, two languages.
Yes she uh, learned them in school, French and uh-  French and Latin.
Well uh, Me and RD-NAME-1 we had uh, Spanish.
No.
Don't care for it too much.
I had uh, one  when I used to work in the Hot Shop uh,  Well we used to go out, you know  like after work we'd go and  go to a night club or something like that we uh,  go with him.
You know he'd come along with us.
He's just like one of the fellas.
He's alright.
Yeah there's several things I'd change.
Uh,  I'd-  I'd go into uh, sports more.
And uh,  I'd study a little more harder.
You know,  lot of things I found hard uh,    they were hard because I didn't study you know, for 'em before, I had 'em but I didn't take 'em seriously enough and uh,  like I say I'd go into sports more and- I'd study more math.
And uh- I like math  but uh,  I couldn't-  I don't know, all my teachers tell me I could be good at it but I don't apply myself.
And uh,  you know, when you kind of  a little bit behind you know,  you start  not caring so much, so.
You don't really go into it like you should.
Well uh, on my own I could but um,    I just don't find the time to do it  really.
Uh, a draftsman uh, I think it'll take me about six years after I finish school.
Because uh,  after I go to college uh,  well you know it takes about two years apprentice.
And uh,  six years- six to eight years from that time.
I hope it don't take any longer, you know.
Well I'd buy myself  a house,  and uh,  I'd buy myself all the clothes I needed.
Fix-  fix up a couple of basketball courts and uh,  we'd uh,  you know I'd fix up all my friends who needed- you know, need some cash.
And uh,  I'd buy my mother whatever she needed.
You know whoever I thought needed- you know, needed the money I'd give it to 'em.
That's about it.
Yes.
Well uh, you know usually on the holidays a lot of parties are given and  we usually go to uh, all the  parties we can find.
Yeah uh Yeah, we go to all the parties we can find and  we go out,  you know,  might go bowling or  we go skating.
Uh, we go bowling and skating a lot I forgot to tell you that.
And uh,  usually on the holidays we go bowling and skating,  go to parties and  just you know,  drive around a lot.
play basketball.
Uh, I don't spend too much time- I spend some time at home but most of the time I'm on the go.
So,  you know I see 'em, I talk to 'em, that's about it.