RD-NAME-2.
Yes I do.
I lived here probably all my life.
Yes I was.
Freedmen's Hospital.
Huh.
You mean now?
I'm seventeen.
Yeah.
Well,  when?
When do you mean?
How old?
Well.
When we's about twelve years old we played kickball in the alley.
Was a whole bunch of kids all the time,  be after school you know,  we play.
And  most time  we get to hollering sometime about whose kick it is and things like that, you know.
Somebody fall down,  scratch their arm or something,  go home, tell their mother, things like that.
Well it's a guy be in the center of you,  and you be in the- in the rear of the center.
And a guy roll the ball to you, and you kick it.
There be about  two or three other people behind him, you see.
If they catch the ball, then you're out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you catch a fly ball,  then it's out.
Well we play Hide and Go See  and uh,  Red Light,  things like that.
Well, it bes a guy,  and he  just turn all the way around and  count to ten.
And you be running up as fast as you can to get  as close as him as you can, you see,  for if you get as close as him as you can,  then  you'll, you know- you'll call the turn and things of Red Light.
Well, it be about five people,  and uh,  everybody runs up to-  to the guy you see,  tryna get his card you see, calling Red Light.
Things like that.
Well you just get any five, just any five players.
No.
No.
No.
No sides at all.
Well,  these guys hide his head against a wall or a tree,  and you run as fast as you can and hide.
And if you hide, and he can't find you,  and if you get as close as you can to the base, then you put your hand on the base and you're safe.
You have to go out looking for the other people.
Well we played High Low.
High low.
Well,  it bes  two people hold a rope  you see,  and it's high- the ropes goes higher and higher each time,  you see.
And at first you start off real low,  then you come up higher and higher.
And if you miss you take end of the rope.
You just hold the rope real low, you see.
And as it- And as you jump over the rope, it goes higher.
Yeah.
Yeah- Well if he fall- No, uh, not actually.
The rope- If uh-  if you trip,  the rope  you know, fall or come out your hand or something,  you know.
Well, no.
I  played games with uh,  Clorox tops,  you know.
We played uh,  you know, hitting each other.
See-  pitch the farthest in line, things like that.
Well yeah, you know.
If uh-  if you can pluck  your top you know-  E- You see, you put dirt in the top, you see.
And pluck the other guy's top.
If you can pluck his top  out of the ceiling, you know,  you just got to pluck- keep plucking now.
Things like that.
No, you just pluck it with your thumb, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah, just pluck it.
Yes, I played marbles.
Well,  we- we played  all sorts of games.
We played uh,  Dunkin Hines, Big Marbles, you see.
You know,  all the marbles be in the center.
and a guy comes along with a big marble and knock 'em all out.
Takes your marble, then it just keep on shooting.
That's right.
Then it's my turn yeah.
No I never played that game.
No I never played that.
No.
No.
Well I  played a lot of basketball,  football.
Well I really like it you know.
Well I like  football  most.
I like basketball too.
Well I did one time.
Well you know,  we usually play up  Happy Hollow Playgrounds on Eighteen Street.
But you know, nobody never did show up for practice and things like that so  we just broke up you know.
That was last year.
No just Happy Hollows was the only one.
No.
Oh one potato, two three two three four yeah, things like that, yeah.
Oh, let's see.
Yes it is, you know.
I'm tryna think.
I don't believe I can.
No.
Yes I do.
Well,  I'll tell you.
I like  Dating Game, The Mob Squad  and  I like It Takes a Thief  and  uh,  Dark Shadows  and uh,  let's see.
Uh,  The Outcast.
The Outcast.
Mm.
The Outcast?
It's a colored guy and a white guy, you know.
They uh,  bounty hunters, you know.
They hunt for bounties, you know.
And uh,  they just go out most of the time, looking for guys you know.
Guys who rob banks and things like that.
And bring 'em back  to town for law and y- f- for justice.
Well,  I can remember one.
Well, well these two guys, know,  they're real good friends, you see.
So  this-  this guy he's a slave, you know.
So this guy  brought him a woman back.
You know, he bought this woman for the guy, you see.
The colored guy  he and uh-  See the white guy he had a woman, you see,  but the colored guy didn't have one, so he brought a woman back.
So he say he didn't want the woman.
So he asked him, why?
So he said, Because you can't buy a human being, you see.
So they got to arguing.
Then they got to fighting,  and then  so on and so on.
They took the woman back.
The Outcasts.
The Dating Game.
Well it's about  a man and a woman,  about a  single man and a single woman.
And comes on you know,  and uh, the woman,  she don't have a date and the man don't have a date.
So  they'll arrange that, you know.
And  then send 'em on trips and things, you know.
California,  England, you know, things like that.
Paris.
Well  Dark Shadows is- is a  picture of the past.
You know, it's s- sort of like a-  it's something like, the past, you know.
It's a-  It's like-  It's like a monster picture, you know?
Scary, you know.
And it's about  Barnabas Collins and  his uncle and things, you know.
It's about a lot of  witchcraft stuff, you know.
Well yes I do.
It don't- It don't last too long you know.
It just  scontinue you know, every day.
One time, you know, it was Barnabas,  and uh, Barnabas is a vampire    so Barnabas bit his sister.
I forgot her name.
But anyway, he bit his sister  and  they try to catch him right in- right in the house,  but somehow he disappears you know,  and they couldn't catch him.
So they just went all around looking for him looking for him.
So  they knew where his coffin was at, you see.
Someone told him it was Barnabus.
A little girl told him that it was Barnabus, you know, that-  that bit his sister.
But  they-  They said it couldn't have been Barnabus cause Barnabus is dead, you know?
So no one believes that it was Barnabus.
So  they went to Barnabus grave you know,  and Barnabus you know, his-  his body wasn't there.
So  they for- they  got, you know-  got kind of upset.
So  it kept on and Barnabus body still wasn't there, you know.
They kept on going back and his body wasn't there.
So  one time they went back,  they found his body there and  stuck a spike in his heart.
Well  It Takes a Thief, he's a-  he's a thief.
And um,  he steal all sorts of things.
He steal  diamonds and uh,  he steal plans  and uh,  steal all sorts of things, you know.
All sorts of important things.
No he's not.
He's a thief.
Yeah.
He was a thief.
Well, yeah, I can.
I can remember one.
Uh, he was out to steal these diamonds, you know.
And uh,  he had to- he had to get the diamonds  and take 'em back to the man.
Well the- there was no way he could get the diamonds cause the whole building  was alarm proof you see.
So  as he went in the place  to get the diamonds, he went-  he came down through the ceiling.
So  and the alarm went off and they caught 'em in there,  you know,  and they was gonna kill him.
So they just took him.
They put him in a car,  you know, took him off.
They was gonna throw him over a cliff.
So he just chopped up two of the men, you know,  threw them over the cliff and took the car.
Oh.
This is uh-  this is  three people, you know.
It's a  colored guy and  a white girl  and a man you know.
And they go around you know,  breaking up narcotic squads and things like that.
Well yeah, they're police man.
I think so.
I think so.
No, I didn't see it last night.
And they go around, you know,  bringing up  different things, like narcotics things and  robbery and-  and all sorts of things, you know, all sorts of crimey things.
They break 'em up.
Yeah, I remember one.
Uh,  one time that they uh-  these guys, you know,  it was some colored guys and some white guys, and they were strung out, you know, on dope.
So they was tryna get him, you know, to kick the habit.
But you know,  they-  they didn't wanna kick it you see.
They were strung out, but  you know,  so they just went on,  kept on stealing and things, you know, taking things.
So  they find out- this man that was giving 'em the drugs, and the man s- first started 'em  so they busted him, you know.
That was it.
Well,  I had one.
I had a German Shepherd,  a Belgian Shepherd.
It was- it was a-  a Belgian Shepherd.
Name was Precious, you know.
And she was real smart dog.
You know, she'd do everything I tell her.
Like I could sit at this end of the corner and tell her don't move, just set there,  she'd set there you know.
She'd just set right there, and she wouldn't move anything.
So  she stay there.
She was house trained, you know.
She wouldn't  do anything in the house.
She knew-  I tell her give me her right paw, she give me her right paw.
I tell her to give me the left paw, she give me her left paw.
And  she, you know- she uh-  she wouldn't fight or anything, you know.
She wouldn't bite anybody.
She was a good dog.
But she just wasn't, you know, like-  She was just willing to attack anybody if somebody was really gonna hurt me, you know.
Well,  one day, you know, my father  he let her out, you know.
And my father had to go back in the house, so  she was a friendly dog and everybody in the neighborhood liked her, so I think someone took her.
Yeah.
Well I haven't seen too many movies lately.
But  I like  James Bond  and uh,  I like a lot of sex movies you know.
I haven't seen too many recently.
Things like that.
Which one?
James Bond?
Well I've seen James Bond, from Russia with Love.
Uh,  James Bond  was tryna uh,  take over  this uh-  this agency, and it was-  He was tryna take it over.
And uh,  he couldn't exactly take it over, you know,  by hisself, so they  send some more men in and things.
And they took it over.
They just took the  agency over.
Destroy the whole place.
School?
Well I dropped out of school.
No.
No.
I went to tenth grade.
Yeah.
Well I work, you know,  part time.
I work in a store  part time.
Well,  clean up, put  in the box, pull shelves and  things like that.
Well I work about five hours a day.
That's about all.
Well, it's alright.
Yeah, it's alright, you know.
Well uh,  at the moment I am.
Find something.
Full time yeah.
Well,  I like  Arithmetic,  Reading,  and  I like Science.
I love Science, you know.
Most of the time, you know,  in Science- We had a lot of fun in Science because our teacher  you know-  Like if you  come in one day and didn't wanna do nothing, he understand your problem and things like that.
I liked him you know,  things like that.
Well you know, things just wasn't going right for me, you know?
I just got tired.
But I'm going back though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it was a him.
Well anyway, it was a him you know.
Actually,  I think he really hated me because you know,  I was more-  Well you see, other kids was scared of him, you know.
I wasn't scared of him so whenever he would say something to me, you know, like try to bully me,  I would say something back to him, you know.
Things like that.
He was a real bully.
He wouldn't bother nobody, he just bully people, you know.
Things like that.
In school?
Oh yeah, plenty of times, you know, for doing wrong things like when I was sposta be doing my work I be talking to girls or  talking to somebody,  doing something  not what I was sposta be doing.
Well,  well yeah, it was, you know.
I was wrong.
Oh yeah!
Yeah.
Well,   sometime you know,  as a teacher can, you know,  just walk into a room and hear a lot of people talking, a lot of-  and then all of a sudden it just stops   and it's called you  come here, you know, holler, you know.
Things like that.
Yeah was  favorite teacher.
No.
No, never been that one.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We uh,  go out to parties, and you know,  have fun.
Go to places.
Well,  I will name  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-1,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2.
You know.
Oh yeah.
I have-  As a matter of fact,  I just had one white guy,  real good friend of mine.
His name is RD-NAME-3.
He just left  you know,  DC.
He went to uh,  California.
Well yeah.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-3.
And a guy named RD-NAME-1.
No.
No.
Well, yeah, sometime.
Sometime we do.
Well his name is RD-NAME-1, you know.
RD-NAME-1 he's-  Well,  he's type of guy you know, like  if we go and do something, and he know it's rugged, you know, he tell us not to and things like that.
Well you know, he  talk with a lot sense you know.
Well  everything he says and things, you know,  seems to be okay,  and everybody agrees with him.
No he's not the biggest.
Well you can say he is, you know.
Say so.
He can think faster than we can you know.
Some of us.
And some of us can think for ourselves, you know.
Well yeah, he goes to school.
Yeah, pretty good.
Well,  truthfully speaking,  you know,  I don't think-  Well he probably could.
I'm not gonna say he can't.
But yeah, he would have to prove to us  that  he'd be alright with us.
See, because you know, we don't go around  uh, stealing and things like that you know, or robbing people.
He'd have to do a lot of good things for people, you see.
People would have to know him and things, you know.
Or like,  you know,  we do a lot of nice things for people for-  who have small families and things, you know,  work with a center called A New Thing.
And  we give out  food and stuff you know,  twelve o'clock at lunch time.
Stuff like that.
He have to help people and make people like him, you know.
Things like that.
Well,    I wouldn't uh-  I wouldn't be messing around on the street, and I'd go back to school.
Oh.
Well I'd like to be the s- Oh.
Well I like to I like to be like my father, you know.
My father he's a brick mason.
And you know, he trained me some things you know.
And uh,  he's pretty good at it, you know.
Ooh.
Long time.
You can- you can start off you know, as a- as a labor.
Work your way up, you see.
Things like that.
Well,  I'm going  to RD-SCHOOL-3 you know, at night time.
That's uh,  place where training, you know, stuff like that.
It trains you, you know, shows you the way.
Things, you know, and they pay you as you training.
And I'm going there, you know,  for training.
Well,  a brick mason  most of the time,  you don't find him on a lower level of the ground, you see.
Most of the time he's always on top,  watching his men and things.
Leveling all the time, you know.
See if things level and see if the walls level,  see if the floor level and things.
No he's a- he's a mason you know.
He's up higher than other labor.
Well the other men, those are brick layers, you know.
It's a brick mason and brick layer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well,  I'd start off by buying myself a home.
Nice car,  nice clothes.
Help my family and  things like that.
Yeah.
Well,  actually in V- in Virginia,  we own a home there but we don't live there you know.
Yeah.
I live on Willard Street.
Yeah.
Well,  they drink  and uh,  go places,  do things, you know.
Christmas?
Everybody be happy and celebrate,  drink,  you know.
And go out places,  have a lot of fun,  come back, you know.
Celebrate more and more.
Oh yeah, lots of present.
Well I like a car.
Well I got a-  a watch  and a tire set one time.
And a ring, you know.
A watch?
Well the watch was a Bulova watch.
That was- You know,  I always wanted a watch, you know, when I was young, you know.
I think I was about ten years old then.
Oh yeah.
I love clothes, you know.
Well I got a suit,  sharkskin suit, two button.
Yeah.
Well it's got two vents in the back.
Yeah.
Yeah, on the sides yeah.
Both sides.
No.
Well I've-  I- I've been so sick that I wish I could-  you know, I wish I would die.
Well you know,  it was a virus or something- the virus, you know.
I had that one time and I couldn't eat nothing, vomick all the time.
You know.
And I had the diarrhea  once.
No.
Oh I been in a lot of fights.
W-   well most of my fights- Well,  I don't do too much fighting now.
Most of my fights when I was young you see.
Guys you know, used to pick at me all the time cause I was heavy, you know.
You know,  tease me and things  cause my clothes wouldn't fit as neat as their was, you know.
And they fit neat but you know,  you know how  big guy always have to pull his clothes up and things like that.
And they used to tease me about all sorts of things like that you know.
Yeah well, then we get to fighting, you know.
I get to argue with them so,  Well you don't like it?
No, I don't like it.
Well you know we can do?
Well what's we can do?
We can fight yeah, you know, if you don't like it, so we get to fighting and things like th-  Things like that.
No I never been in a gang fight.
Oh no.
No.
Well,  I believe they're white, you know.
I believe they're right.
Right.
Uh-huh.
That's right.