Um, baseball,  football, basketball,  tennis,  kickball.
How do I play it?
I ain't r- actually played it, but you know I took it at school.
I'll take it at school when I take gym, that's the only time.
And I don't know how to actually play it.
And I know how to play soccer.
Somebody hit the ball over to me, and I hit it back to them and t- keep trying to not let them knock it on the ground, or I knock it on the ground.
I try to  make him miss it and he try to makes me miss it.
So I can get- win like that.
Tag  or um, some kind of circle game or something like that.
Or, if they have like checkers  or  original games like on TV.
I play with them like that.
With them games.
Like we get a person to  chase after us, and the person that he tag,  that- that person be what he was at first.
Whatever he g- say he is.
Like that.
We say um,  not it,  and if the last person that don't say, not it, that's the one that be it.
Nursery rhymes?
I don't hardly know none of them.
What do you mean?
Like we can say, eenie meenie miney moe, like that.
Catch him by his toe.
If he holler let him go.
Eenie meenie miney moe.
And if that person that  at um, the last person that I said a word on, that's the one be it.
Or  how'd that go?
It's something uh- what color is-  what color was his blood?
Okay, what else you wanna ask?
My favorite TV program is The Outcasts,  Julia,  um, My Three Sons, and Petticoat Junction, and Dating Game.
Juliette um-  Last night, when Juliette came on,  this- her little son, you know, they wanted to buy this kind of- this monster.
And so,  Juliette says sh-  his- her son can have it.
And the other little boy's mother said- Robert Waggoner or something like that, said his mother said he couldn't have it.
So his mother told him he go out s- and shine shoes,  and he would make his money to buy his monster,  so  both the two little boys went out and shined shoes.
And Juliette didn't like it because she said  back like in the forties, that's the only kind of jobs our race could get And so she ain't like her son to do this.
Then later on, they got the money, and they bought the monster.
And she um, at the end of it,  they went in her room, and they scared her and she- They was playing, running around the couch and the  No.
Mm-mm.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Ugh.
I hate it.
I don't like the teachers.
And it's not-  It ain't no fun.
We can't get outside and get no fresh air until three o'clock, and I don't like that.
And I'm not-  They changed the classes around, and see, I don't like to be in the classroom I'm in.
An- Yes.
It's okay.
But I still don't like it.
That's why I hardly know nothing about it.
Cause I don't pay no attention to it.
My teachers?
They're nice, but I  don't want 'em.
I wanna get transferred to another class.
In Mr.
RD-NAME-2's room.
Cause I think he's nice.
Like if- He'll let you talk and laugh and things like that.
But he don't want you to talk loud.
And that's why I like him.
He ain't mean.
No.
Yeah.
If I be doing something, they don't like it.
Like if I talk a lot or chew gum or something, they'll holler at me and like, if I fuss back at them, they'll holler like in Music class, I was-  we was having a test.
The teacher- I wasn't there almost all that week,  so she said,  we gonna have a test.
And I said, miss RD-NAME-1, I don't have the words.
What are you talking about?
If you had been here, you would of knowed the words.
So, after the test, we had did it-  And so this girl behind me- I know she don't- She don't ever do no work, so I turn around and said,  do you have a um,  the t- work that we just did?
Sh- Then Mrs.
RD-NAME-1 told me turn around and be quiet.
And I said, I was just asking her- She told me to turn around and be quiet.
She told me to send it back, and when I said, I'm gonna tell my mother.
She told me sit in back of the room.
I'm isolated.
That's why I got a F on my paper.
Um,  I don't know my best teachers I ever had- Oh, that was in the second grade.
That was a long time ago.
She was nice.
She likeded me the best all in the room.
These girls in my room, they used to beat me up  all the time, and I u- If I go back and tell the teacher, they'll get in trouble.
So when we go in the bathroom, they'll beat me up.
Then when I go up the step- I ain't like to fight-  They'll pet me and make me stop crying this- before we get in the room cause if I tell the teacher.
They know they'll get in a lot of trouble.
No.
Like me and Glaverne, we go many places together, and we hang together.
We share each things, we share each other.
You know, what we have, we share it.
And we go d-  and we go to this club  and like, we go to dance- We go to the dance together.
We go roller skating.
We go to the roller skating ring together.
And we do all the things like that.
It's a study hall, where you go to study at.
Mm-mm.
It's not at school.
It's um,  not far from my house on New York Avenue.
They just go there and tell the lady that they want a teacher,  and the lady will um,  tell them to wait until she find 'em one.
And if one teacher come there that's new there  they'll get that teacher like that.
They'll sign up and take that child.
Yes, after school is- We start at seven o'clock to eight o'clock.
Mm-hm.
I don't like to do nothing on Saturdays and Sundays.
Sometime on Sundays I go to movies.
No.
I would like to be a doctor,  but it takes so long to be that, so I want to be a secretary.
I don't know.
I don't wanna work in the surgeon one.
Cause I don't think my nerves that good.
I don't know all the names of the doctors, though.
That's- Cause I just-  I ain't wanna be a grown up doctor.
I wanna be a children doctor because I like childrens.
Yeah, one time.
That was putting something on the baby's mouth, and making him do something- sticking something down his throat.
That's the only time I ever saw it.
I was in New York then.
Just visiting.
I was visiting.
My little cousin got sick.
I have to finish school,  and I'm going to secretary school so I can learn to take up shorthand and typing like that.
I'd like to take that up now.
So I can know.
I don't know.
I wanted to work in London cause I love London, but I don't think I ain't got no money to go to there.
I don't know nothing about it.
All I know is  that I like they way- the way the peoples talk,  and I think it's a pretty city.
That's all I know about it,  any other case.
I studied about England.
But I ain't studied very much about it.
I know that-  I don't know if it's true or not- That it's hard for them to grow food in that country.
And I know it's-  they very friendly to the United State, and they our mother country.
That's all I mostly know about it.
I hope so.
If I had all the money in the world, I would help poor peoples.
By- Like some peoples can't have- ain't got enough food, and they ain't living in a decent home.
I'd help them live in a-  I'd try to help them get a decent home  and more food and clothings.
So- and get them-  and build better schools, so they can get a education.
I'd do the same for myself.
I'd buy a home,  and I'd put everything that I need in my home and what I need for myself.
In Washington State.
I don't know nothing about that.
I just w- I just want to live on a ranch.
My family don't celebrate.
That's why I wanna leave them.
They don't celebrate.
The only ones we celebrate is Thanksgiving and Christmas.
And Easter.
What I do?
On Christmas, my mother gonna give my toys.
I just play like if I want something  I just get it,  and just  play with it,  well if it's anything to play with.
If it's anything to wear, I wear it and go somewhere.
And if um,  on Thanksgiving, all we do- My mother fix food and we eat.
And on Easter  we get our Easter clothes, and we go to church on Easter.
On Easter Monday, and we go out somewhere  like to Marshall Hall or some where like that.
The same.
No.
Trick or tr- Uh, trick and treat.
This Halloween?
I'm going trick or treating.
If my mother want me to go.
Where I'm going?
Right around in my neighborhood.
Yeah, I'm'a get dressed up.
I don't know, as a lady.
I don't do nothing but just go to people's house and say, trick or treat,  and what they give me, I go home and eat it.
Yeah.
Um,  I want a sewing machine.
I had a sewing machine but it got burnt up, and I want some clothes.
A sewing machine.
Year before last.
I let my aunt took it with her to New York, and her house caught on fire.
Mm-hm.
One night, on the first day of school, we was going to get our hair fix,  and so it was late.
It was about  two something  before I went home.
And  Carl, this man, he was getting all fresh and these p- these boys was following.
And I thought I was gonna get killed, and one day I was on my way from home,  a pain hit me in my chest.
Somewhere, I don't where it hit me- I thought it was in my heart.
And I thought I was going to die right out in the street.
Stand still.
Cause I was scared.
No.
Wasn't many peoples outside.
I think that's true.
Like if somebody say  that the person gonna die.
Is it gonna happen, just gonna happen.
That person just gonna die.
Yeah.
I hear some- I hear it somebody said that um,  somebody was gonna get killed,  but  they didn't get killed.
Yeah.
Do I have any questions for you?
No, I don't have no questions for you.