I played baseball,  tennis,  some football,  and  I  now play golf.
I'm interested in golf.
Playing golf.
Yeah, I played marbles.
Uh,  huh?
Red Rover?
That's just like Hide and Seek isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah, I used to play f- Well Hide and Seek.
Now what?
May I, no.
I've never heard of it.
Uh-  no.
Uh-uh.
Well, we used to uh,  have one, you know, des- I mean,  one- one  person to uh,  stand under tree and  hide his face and then  the other kids would go and hide.
And then,  they count up to a hundred,  and uh,  after they finish counting they would  try to find other people.
Well, I uh, used to play Knucks  And King in the Ring.
And uh, m- men- Just regular marbles.
King in Ring.
We had a big-  big aggie.
And uh, then they said small m-  you know, those toy marbles.
And uh,  who- whoever could get the most marbles out- Shoot- Without uh,  you know uh,  the  , you know  toy  uh, going outside the rings.
And uh,  then uh,  if you get a chance to h-  the uh-  hit the king in the ri- king of the ring out,  uh-  I think that it the last one  you would uh, try to get.
I'm- I'm not- not- It been quite s- Been so long, you know, since I've played it.
But uh, I think that's the way it went, idea.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My favorite TV programs are  news,  world news, and uh,  and I like uh,  what's that uh,  uh-  Oh, what do you call that?
Uh,  The Virginian and uh,  oh,  what's that guy that uh-  He's in the-    what was that?
Can't think.
It-  Well, I think it comes on Friday.
Uh- Tarzan!
Yeah.
Tarzan.
And I like that, and uh- and it's another one that uh,  The Space.
That program- Yeah.
Lost in Space.
Star Trek, yeah.
Uh-huh.
Uh,  no.
Wifey I can't because I- I-  I believe I missed this last week.
Yeah uh,  there was a  man n- He had uh,  served time in jail,  and he come  to this uh, particular farm to apply for a job.
Which he was, in town seeking a job.
And uh,  in fact he uh, escaped from jail, and  he come to this town to get a job and um,  he uh,  Oh, managed to get the job, but  in uh,  uh-  Some man- some other f- friend of his, recognized him  and called him some other name.
He- which he had  had another assumed name.
And, he wouldn't uh, you know, admit it that- it- there w-  it was-  He knew it was his right name, see?
And, it went on, awful long time, and then,  one day they got together and  he uh,  admitted that  that was his name, see?
Because the things that they used to do together,  you know, um,  and  while he asks him not to  you know let anybody else know it.
But eventually it come out, you know?
And uh-  but he was uh-  they wouldn't uh-  Was it Marshall or Sheriff?
He come to- come looking for him,  and knew he was there, see?
I mean somebody had told 'em that he was in this town, and uh,  y- uh-  Then uh-  Who was that man?
Anyhow, the-  the head man of the- on the f- on this uh- ranch  wouldn't let him go, you know.
He uh, wouldn't allow the uh, sheriff to take him back to jail, see.
Said he'd be- He'd take responsibility.
And  that's as far as I remember,  I mean.
Yeah.
I saw-  See, well I just saw last Saturday's game.
I think it was up to the third inning.
Uh, you know I didn't have time to finish the game.
I think I was-  unintelligible-  I don't know what teams was playing either.
You know.
I'm not interested in baseball.
I used to play it, see?
I mean I see it- If I turn it on and it's on, I'll look at it as long as I can, see?
Other than that, uh,  always uh-  The Dodgers play in the past.
Willie Mays and- I saw him hit a home- hit- hit a home run.
And this uh- I forget the other fella, hit a grand s- grand slam.
I can't think of his name,  but I'm not too familiar with the players, you know.
I got- Know 'em.
I can identify 'em, but uh,  you know, just to- say well that's such and such a man, I-  I can't, you know- I don't take much interest in it, but  uh, years ago I used to play it myself, you know what I mean.
Had a lot of fun.
You did, huh?
I've never gotten hurt in any sport I played so far.
Yeah  Oh man, it burned my hand, threw- threw the ball so hard and it stung my hand.
Yeah.
Unintelligible Yeah.
Yeah.
Pet?
Pet  game?
No, I don't.
I did have a-  uh-  d- a dog.
I used to s- uh- His name was Queenie.
And then I had a-  a cat.
Her name was Queenie.
Which I lost both of 'em, see.
The dog, he was very attentive.
I mean, I could-  I'd rather be as- When I was lonely in the house,  I didn't have to depend on, you know,  on knowing  who was approaching the house.
All I had to m- I mean- She would- Well it-  He would uh, let me know.
You know by cocking his ears and-  and uh,  then get up- You know how dogs do, get up and start barking,  and that's when I knew someone, you know, was coming to the house, see.
Which was very- I mean a lot of company to me, too.
Course see- Yeah.
I had a Cocker Spaniel, too, and  the ish- He wouldn't, uh, let my wife get near me.
Yeah-huh.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Well uh, I had an incident happen with the dog.
I was out one evening and uh,  uh,  this boy RD-NAME-2 you know, and- and his father broke in my house.
And the dog was in the basement,  which he  got some bologna from this uh,  store on the corner.
Two slices of bologna, figur- figuring that he could feed the dogs.
Eat while sh-  he was- the dog was very-  wouldn't let nobody feed him.
And the dog uh,  run upstairs,  and I had-  I had about nine hundred dollars up there,  you know, in my- upstairs.
And that's the only thing that saved that money.
And  uh,  I mean  i- You know, that's what you call a friend, a pal.
When you get something like that.
Well I went to Steven School, here.
And  uh,  this other school.
What's this?
Uh- No, right up here.
Uh,  off of  L- I think it was L Street.
Sumner.
Sumner and Gouda.
And that's as far as I went here in school.
Then I was uh,  sent to Wilmington Delaware, see?
I was a- I'm- I'm what you-  Fact, I was an- I'm an orphan, you know.
And my parents, they couldn't uh,  afford to  keep in school, and they put me in a home.
And that was in Wilmington, Delaware.
Home was named Saint Joseph's.
Which was a very nice place and  I got  oh, quite an education there, see?
While I was there, and then,  after I grew up,  got of age,  then I was sent to uh, Rock Castle, Virginia.
And that's where I finished my education, there.
In Virginia.
Mm-hm.
Oh, Arithmetic,  uh,  yah,  aw,    uh,  what do you call it?
Uh,  Geography.
And uh,  Algebra.
And  what else?
Uh,  I had uh,  what do you call it?
Uh,  Athletics.
You know, uh- and,    Then I uh,  graduate- I mean I studied uh- I took up automobile mechanic that's it.
Mm-hm.
That's- After school was out, I  used to play-  go out and- uh- They had a riding academy up here at P Street.
And we used to go up there and exercise the horses up there.
Yeah.
And uh- Yeah.
And,  I uh- One incident happened, I had uh-  My parents bought me some  uh, brand new shoes and eyeglasses, see?
To go to school.
And uh, we used to-  We played hooky that day, my brother and I and  couple other kids.
And we used to wade across P Street, well P S- I mean, creek was much wider than  it is now see?
And uh,  we would  come in c- We were over there looking for gypsies.
You know, used to have a gypsy camp over here too.
And uh,  Well uh-  We would, you know,  fool around their camp, and after we got tired that day  we s- decided to cross the creek.
And I put my eyeglasses  in one shoe,  I think it was my right shoe,  and  in crossing,  I dropped the shoe.
And you know, I never found that shoe.
And,  oh- well,  I didn't want- didn't go home that evening,  and we stayed out til about I think twelve o'clock at night.
And uh,  finally my brother, he gave up and went on in the house there.
And then,  my uh, aunt, she come and got me, see?
I was up in someone's- some- some woman's doorway, see?
But uh,    uh, we looked for that- looked that creek all over  that day.
We couldn't find that shoe.
And I was afraid to go home cause I had brand new shoes.
Brand new pair of eyeglasses.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Uh, yeah.
I had one teacher.
Uh- and- Oh, it's been so long.
I couldn't think of her name right now.
Well,  I- Well, I- I used to throw switch balls- spitballs in class, see?
And uh-   She used to, you know,  punish me.
I mean- usu-  uh- She had a big-  one of those big uh,  fiber-  Uh- No it- It was a stick.
Yeah, made out of fiber or something.
I don't know.
And you'd have to put your hand out- She'd give you so many licks.
Mm-hm.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well,  once when I was in uh,  oh-  uh- Down in Virginia.
Rock Castle,  my brother, you know,  uh, was  they tell- taught us  oh-  Another boy and I were fighting.
and uh, the brother he stepped in and I started fighting the brother, see?
He grabbed me.
He was a much bigger man than I was-  Grabbed me, and  uh you know,  yelled at me.
It uh, I was quite a  um, you know,  character.
I wouldn't give up, see?
And uh,  uh,  I was uh, uh- They sent me home for it  on that you know, incident- on account of that incident.
And then eventually I come back, see, the next uh, uh fall.
Well, in a sense of speaking, that was a punishment.
That's- that was way they punished, you know, uh, the children.
And uh,  I mean, I- I  knew I was in trouble cause  first place, you had no business hitting the brother, you know.
And.
So.
Let's see.
Best teacher I've  ever had was a sister.
They uh- We also had sisters at uh,  Saint Joseph,  and uh, I worked in the kitchen.
She was the German teacher, uh sister.
And uh,  she taught me how to cook,  and one g- one  good thing she-  uh- she made was uh,  pie called a smearcase pie, which is uh,  cottage cheese and  some- they-  mix up with it.
But it was delicious man.
Yeah.
They- they really cook.
Because she-  I mean,  always looked out for me, and  seeing that I got  my meals and- and course I helped her, you know.
And I was- I was interested in cooking, and uh,  uh,  which I turned out to be  you know, a pretty cook.
And I- I was fortunate enough to cook in the Mayflower Hotel.
I was a meat cook there.
I cooked all kind of meats, uh,  fish,  crabs,  uh,  lobsters.
All that.
I prepared dinners for you know, when they had these big affairs down at the Mayflower Hotel.
I did all that myself,  see.
Yeah, I've been quite-  No, I never any- too much hatred for a-  you know,  as long as they didn't bother me cause I- I did most of the deviling.
You know, I was in the- Yeah, I was busy man I was.
And,  they used to punish me.
You know, I- That's the main thing.
I used to get a lot of punishment.
Because I- I- it- I had- It was my- s-  for my- I mean,  It was me and myself to blame, see?
For,   getting punished, see.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah,  mm-hm.
Well, we used to draw things on the board   and put  different slangs on the boards , see and,  Teacher would go out you know, and kids get up at the board and write all kind of things on the board, and  then uh,  uh, they used to keep us in cause nobody would tell  who- who put it up there, see?
And  we had a good time.
Mm-hm.
Well,  I uh,  you know, I was- used to write numbers, which was uh-  It was-  It was alright.
I made a lot of money.
And uh,  but it- it got so that uh-  it um,  made me nervous.
See my nerves were real bad, you know?
And I had a-  I had a eleven hundred dollar book,  see?
And having my big,  amount see?
It was tension all the time, you know?
And  always paid off.
I never did uh-  Never was short on  anybody, and never  did anybody wrong.
And they uh, you know, when I  had to give 'em money, I look for 'em.
When- I took it around to 'em and- and uh,  but I made a  lot in a money in that.
And uh,  which I put it to good use.
That's one good thing, see.
I know a lot of fellas who's in the same racket see?
And they- As fast as they would make it, they would spend it see?
And I just took my money and  put it where I could see it, see?
But eventually I had to give it up, which I  served a year  uh- What was it?
No-  Six months in jail, see?
On that account.
And uh,  I uh,  come back out, and I started the same thing, see?
Which my work was still going on while I was there, see?
And  I uh,  come back up-  I w- took it up  in uh-  then uh-  I eventually got it- gave it up because it-  it had- My nerves were shot.
See in the evenings, I used to come home and sit down and  count- try to count my money or  run my ribbons.
You know, I used to  have to run all them ribbons, see?
Each person had a ribbon, see?
And I  totaled up just what they had and- and I start swelling up,  you know?
That's how bad my nerves were, see?
So um,  at  uh-  One day at the store, when I was working this store there- there- This federal man come in.
It was two of 'em rather.
And they showed- They identified theyself and showed me- Told me that uh,  they had been watching me, which they wanted to know who I worked for, see?
And I just uh- I gave them the answer.
I said, well  I don't have to tell you who I'm working for.
You know.
See, which I didn't tell 'em, see?
So uh, he  cursed at me and called me a  damn liar, see?
It-  I knew who I was working for.
So I said, well,  I-  I don't have to tell you, see?
And uh,  then they wanted to know what  time the man come around to pick up.
I said, well,  they send different man, you know.
I didn't know.
He'd come in and identify hisself and  I'd give him my work, see?
And he'd take it on.
Course he called me another damn liar cause he knew that I was lying.
So he uh, said he-  if he-  He could have locked me up that day.
And uh, he said he was going to give me a chance.
And uh, I uh, told him, okay.
I say, if you give me a-  give me today,  you don't have to worry about me tomorrow, see.
So sure enough, he  gave me that day,  and as the people would come in  with their work,  I just told 'em to take it somewhere else, see?
Which I had  quite a bit on me when  uh, I talked to the man then, but  I uh,  got rid of it see?
I took it- Turned in to-  to uh,  the-  to the Warren Boys, see?
And uh, then, uh,  I told 'em that I was finished, see.
And uh,  I uh-  I haven't fooled with it since.
Course I play my own numbers now, see?
Which I  had a  lady tell me Sunday that uh,  RD-NAME-2- That was around here write numbers, see?
Which  I write my own numbers see?
Which I mean, but, to uh, make a profit off it, I'm not.
See, I could do it very m- I mean- I could go around and get numbers if I wanted see,  and make a profit off it, but I'm not, see?
I just play my own numbers.
Yeah.
No.
I- No, not that I know of.
All of 'em were Irishmans.
Irish Americans.
In-  you mean, now?
But- uh-  would I associate with?
Yeah.
I have a lot of white  friends.
Well I'm considered as the leader.
Yeah.
Well they  feel that I know this uh, neighborhood, and-  and I get around, talk to the people.
And  uh we- well we talk business and  about the neighborhood and how-  well what  we think is going to happen in the neighborhood, which I find  in the neighborhood, it's going- gradually going white right now, see?
See, and uh, that's uh-  but they-  Most everybody comes to me for advice.
Yeah.
And for help too.
And I've helped all- any number of people in this neighborhood.
Well,  I uh,  I would like to work in a office.
which my education don't allow me right- I mean I don't have enough education to  qualify for a, an office job.
I did go work at the weather bureau,  and  I've  w- I started as a  um,  what do you call this thing?
Um,  uh,  mail clerk, see?
And I worked up to a clerk.
But,  I found  in the-  my duties  I was teaching the people.
The- You know, if you send people to me,  to l- for me to teach 'em the work,  and I found out there wasn't no advancing for me, see?
I just stayed one grade, and I went to the  supervisor and asked her why-  I mean I  taught these people.
They'd-  had always advanced see?
Next thing  they would  give him a- another job- a better job, and I stayed at this one job, see?
Just  i- teaching new people as they come in.
And uh, she told me that uh, there wasn't no advancing for color.
That was, uh, you know- Well that was in those days when they didn't have- u- I mean, colored man wasn't even recognized, see?
And I just resigned, see?
I  told 'em that I wouldn't-  I couldn't-  I could make more money in the street,  which I did, see?
I gave the job up, come out there and And made  a good- you know-  good fortune see?
Yeah.
No, that wasn't my- wasn't my desire to be any- any uh-  type of- I mean you know- man of that sort, but I-  I wanted to make fast money.
That was my main object, you know.
The easy way.
Well it's uh, just a matter of knowing people.
If you had contacts,  and  o- ay- uh-  automatically money comes to you, you know?
If you- and they find out that they can rely on you,  that's the main thing.
Now if I go out here and try to beat me a man, see, take his money,  well they know that I'm-  I'm a bad- I'm a poor risk.
But  people trusted me with their money.
I mean, when they hit with me, they knew  RD-NAME-3 would pay off, see?
Never had any complaints, which uh,  the people that I worked for,  always paid them  their money in front.
Cash.
Per, you know, right to the penny.
And that's what I expected from them, see?
To protect the people's money.
Well he uh,  just writes numbers.
And uh,  I uh,  then pick up, you know, other people's numbers.
Uh- That I wanted?
That I wanted?
Well, it's n-  I don't want a whole lot of money, I just want to-  I just want to live comfortable, see?
Well- To have things if I felt like I wanted to buy something,  I would have the money.
Which I did have the money to buy clothes.
I had  uh, I still have clothes, see?
And uh,  I- When I see- When I go to the store, and I saw something I like,  I bought it.
Paid cash for it.
And  I didn't have any bills.
No debts.
Things like that.
Yeah.
Now?
Well now, I uh, take care a couple buildings.
I uh, go up and clean 'em.
Which uh,  there's one on S Street I clean,  and it's just uh, about an ho- uh-  I'll say an hour's work, see?
And I have another job up on uh,  Woodley Road,  and that's a four story apartment.
And it's not too hard, all I have to do is take the trash out.
Well I mean,  pull it down the steps there,  put it in a great big bag, and  pull it down.
And then I  go through the halls, and  clean them you know.
See that they're  uh,  kept clean.
And uh,  that's about it.
Where?
Well uh, at uh, RD-ADDRESS-10  RD-ADDRESS-5.
That's where I work.
When I was at the store?
Well I did everything.
I  bought  and sold.
I went shop-  I s-  Yeah, I went to the market.
Used to get up at five o'clock and go to the market, get my supplies.
Come back,  and put 'em up.
And uh,  then prepared my uh,  food for the day, see?
Which kept me right off the-  right busy.
Yeah.
Ah, well, uh-  I can say this Christmas w-  There was no Christmas, you know?
I was uh,  well I was  short of money,  and we just didn't manage, you know.
But I enjoyed it, you know, quietly,  to myself and my family.
But other than that, usually, years ago I used to- We used to have  real big Christmases, you know?
Well all they were  real elaborate.
Everything.
Whiskey, I used to buy.
Cases of whiskey.
And uh,  have my friends come in.
We'd have a good time.
Which I had quite a few friends, and then always had to uh- On Christmas I had to uh,  give uh- The man would give me  a lot- So much money to me,  but I always had to put  some to it, to satisfy all of  people that I had- I had-  I had working for me.
And I'd give 'em whiskey, and  they'd come in the house.
And we'd  have a good time, and  that's the way we celebrated,  see?
And had plenty to eat.
And- What would I like for Christmas?
Well, a quiet Christmas.
I- I- I- I- enjoy that mostly, see?
Just to be at home with my family.
And uh,  course my kids usually come here for Christmas.
I have  uh,  two boys and two girl- I mean, well, one grown girl.
I like p- ha- to have them at home, see?
Which they usually do come home, see?
On- n- and holidays.
The birs- best present?
Well I-  I- Was money.
And man used to hand me five bills every- every Christmas.
Yeah, I look for that man again.
That's right.
It's five hundred dollar bills.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Never had any  um- um-  Maintained- You know, I never-  I never mistreated anybody and never got myself in that position that anybody threatened me or anything like that.
Uh-huh.
Well I believe that.
I believe uh,  I mean,  it's w-  I could be well today and probably go to the doctor's,  and he would tell me,  RD-NAME-2, you uh,  you have this  uh, have cancer.
It wouldn't excite me  because I believe that you've got to die with something,  and if I had to just live through it, I would try my best to,  see?
And uh,  feel just like  it's something that I have to live with.