Basketball.
Um  football,  baseball.
play  Hide and Go Seek.
And What Time is it Old Lady Witch?
What Time is it Old Lady Witch.
That's all.
You s-  see it be  other children you say, what time is it old lady witch?
And she supposed to say,  one o'clock, until she count to ten o'clock.
She's supposed to say, midnight, and when she say, midnight,  she run and chase you, and if she catches you on her side  and then- and then-  you keep on playing til the last one is caught.
Um, around about  five or ten.
Any amount.
No.
Yes sir.
She  the other-  the other um children, they be behind, she be in front of 'em.
We-  we um  put our feets in and see which one is out, last out.
And the last one is out they's it.
Um  let's put your feet in- Toss on in a tree and he fell out, what color was his blood?
Not supposed to tell you what color his blood was.
And if-  and then,  then I supposed  s- then I supposed to say his-  then I supposed to um,  then I supposed to um  spell like the- what color I said and G-R-E-E-N spells the word green and you are not it.
No.
I'm not it.
You it.
Uh-huh.
One potato, two potato, three potato, four.
Five potato, six potato, seven potato, more.
Hm.
No.
Two.
Um, you hide.
You-  you do the same thing I just showed you.
And you supposed to hide- Uh-huh.
Then the person who it  supposed to put their hands up and don't look.
Then you supposed to hide,  and then when you catch one,  you- they supposed to run to the tree and-  and if you get there before that-  if you get-  if you get there in time and touch the tree, you not it.
But if  the one who is it catches, you it.
Kick the can?
No.
Marbles, I just play with 'em.
Sh- Shoot 'em.
I put all the other marbles up there, and then  I have one marble and I pluck.
Put all the marbles down, and then I shoot it like that.
That's the power.
A marble.
Thumb.
Yes sir.
I like basketball.
Um, we p-  we play a basketball game at Stead playground,  and  Friday night that's coming up,  the one's who play,  they get a trophy.
And yesterday,  yesterday we play um  another team f- for a championship, and we won.
I play guard.
Um,  he just  put his hands up and stop the um,  stop the um,  stop the bas-  try to get the ball from the man.
Yes.
Yes.
Around about four  or six.
Yes sir.
Yeah,  it's good.
Around about twenty seven,  thirty points, something like that.
No.
No.
Stick ball?
No.
May?
May I like-  what's- how you play that?
No.
Left side.
Uh-huh.
No, you know.
Like all that left end is  I didn't mean to.
Yeah.
Huh?
Not yet.
Yes sir.
Yes sir.
Charley Taylor.
Uh,  think he play  right guard.
Um, ah.
Well h-  he run fast, and he can shift-  shift other players.
And he catches the ball every time.
Everytime, they say he catches the ball  anyway you throw it,  catch it.
Yes.
Um  um  I can't guess his name.
Something like Bobby Mitchell.
No.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't be with them when they play.
They too old.
Um, I got a little brother who's ten.
He's the youngest.
Yes.
Um  I like The Green Hornet,  but I- I don't watch it cause it's on Channel Twenty.
I like uh  Tuesday Night at the Movies and Monday Night at the Movies,  all the Night Movies.
And I like war pictures.
Like Hercules and Gladiators.
I like cartoons.
Flintstone.
Um  Felix the Cat.
Yeah.
It's a man  gotta um  head on and there's a Chinese man that know Karate,  and Green Hornet is a big tall man, and the other one is Kato.
And he riding in a car  they named the Black Beauty, and  they- and a man, the small man, who be a chef who know Karate,  he do Karate when the mans would try to jump his other- his boss.
Huh?
You know, he breaks 'em- he breaks-  he breaks their leg or something.
One time, Kato, he were fighting another man,  and  and this other man, he know Karate too.
And  Kato,  he kill- he had killed the man.
The man  was stiff, looking like a statue and fell down.
And- and he has something in his hands  and he throws it out,  stick the man in the side.
Huh?
Um, I saw  mm, today Yeah, I like Jerry Lewis and Elvis Presley movies.
Sometimes he be on the movies,  mostly.
And- Uh-huh.
Um  uh, professor stupi- something.
Yeah.
Uh Yeah he drunk some of the stuff,  and he turned  into a cool man, and he know how to sing and stuff.
And  he sing to the girl, and the girl liked him,  and,  and  sometimes, one- he wa- he-  he told the bartenders, he told 'em to fix his,  he and the bartender said, what would you have?
and he said,  don't say it like that, he said, what do you have?
And so,  so um  so he told 'em to fix him something to drink, and he fixed it, and then  went over there and try to take these boys' girls.
And man, and then the man came over there and he said-  and he fixing to hit him, and he  tapped him on the shoulder.
He said,  please Mr.
Bartender!
Don't hit me.
And he got up and hit him in the stomach, and- and hit him in the-  tapped him on his head.
And then, he took the girl, and- and put her on the piano.
He start playing the piano.
And everybody start coming over there listening to him.
Then the girl and him, they rose.
They- they rode in the car somewhere.
And  then he got his- then they was talking.
They was getting ready to kiss, and Jerry Lewis's voice came back to his voice.
And he ran.
See he drink this stuff to make his voice sound good,  and you know sometimes it lose out, goes out.
And he talk in his um funny way.
Aha.
Hercules and the Gladiators, um  Hercules, he a strong man and he be  in his .
Two or four more men, they help w- w- with Hercules.
They fight other- they use other men, long long times ago,  and he went,  and he pick up stone, big stone, and throw 'em on the guards  and stuff.
Try to free the good men.
And it's-  and we get captured,  he bend the-  he bend the bars and get out!
Felix the cat,  the wonderful wonderful cat.
He laughs so much,  he talks a lot.
Unintelligible    I don't know the rest.
He get in a whole lot of trouble.
Like  taking something out of a store or something.
Taking something out of a store.
He take-  he take um  fish and stuff,  and pies and cakes.
And the police chase him.
Run in the trash can,  and the police don't catch him, don't know where he-  He live in the trashcan.
He- Nope.
Gilligan is a um-  these people that got lost on a island.
They couldn't come home cause they need a boat.
Get- The other p-  Professor, and all them.
And Skipper.
Um  they try to get this  big-  this boat, uh, so they can go you-  and they couldn't cause it had a hole in it.
No.
No.
Bomb?
I saw the one, a man he looked like Tarzan.
He swinged on the rope and Gilligan and them saw him  and he get- and he- and they-  they- they- they thought he was um, they thought he was Tarzan.
No.
No.
It's a cartoon where,  there's this small man and his wife and,  and a dinosaur named  Dino or something like that.
And a little baby named Pebble  and  Flintstone and his- and he got a wife,  and they go out and work.
And  they come home and something is wrong.
And wife was after them.
Yes sir.
I have a dog and a cat.
My cat, he has some kittens,  and we kept one.
And so  our dog, he had some puppies,  and he still has some.
And  We- I- we- sometime our cat he get in our bed-  get in my bed, in my brother's bed,  and sleep with us, and our dog do too.
She don't like my dog getting in bed.
Like-  he don't get in no- he don't get in no girls' bed.
He just like to get in our bed.
Uh, he still do have 'em,  have four left.
Huh?
Yeah, one kitten and we kept him.
I- uh- she was a girl kitten.
Sixth grade.
Um  I passed it through the sixth grade, now I ain't study nothing yet.
We study Science.
We study Spelling,  Arithmetic,  and  Fractions,  Social Studies,  and  and  Phonics.
Sumner Elementary School.
Sumner.
I go serve my papers.
Yes sir.
Star.
I go up the playground, play.
Play basketball.
No, not at home, but at the playground, they have basketballs.
Yes.
Um  when you do something wrong, she holler at you.
Like  if we didn't learn something  that we supposed to learn.
Yep.
For um  for playing cards- I wasn't really playing cards.
This boy was showing me how to play something.
And a girl told her, then she started fussing at me.
Huh?
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Teacher in the Kindergarten.
Cause she like- she-  she always let us go outside and play.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
Oh.
Second grade teacher.
Cause she made me stay back.
She stayed me back.
I don't know.
I think I- I went to school- I started school too late.
Tricks?
Mm.
No, I didn't do that.
They fight the teacher though.
Yeah.
Uh.
It was- It was two boys.
They was two brothers.
They had just came through the third grade,  and they was-  and they was fighting each other.
And the teacher, she tried to break 'em up,  so they jumped on the teacher.
The teacher throwed 'em on the desk .
Not so many.
Quiet.
Me?
Yeah I get in fights.
Um, sometimes I win, sometimes I lose.
Not if I know.
Not on our street, no.
Some.
Jerry,  um  my brother, and them.
And Watcher  um, Wheels,  Ernie,  um  um  Knot,  Steve,  and Frank,  Ernie.
and Dino.
Steve.
Andy.
Huh?
White?
One, Randy.
He a deaf and dumb boy.
Come at the playground sometime and play with us.
He play basketball with us.
He color.
All the rest of 'em colored.
It's um  a French boy I know named RD-NAME-2.
Yes.
Yes sir.
No.
Nope.
Just don't want no leader.
Yeah, if he's nice.
Um  play with us,  don't show off when somebody come new,  like somebody in his family come.
Huh?
Unless- don't show off when- when his cousin or somebody  come to his-  come to see him.
I want to be um,  I wanna be a policeman.
I don't know.
Help people.
By-  by  thinning out the bad people that  did things that they shouldn't have done  to jail.
And if there's a fight  they break it up.
Gave some to my mother  and  spend it, I guess.
I want a-  I want  house.
A house.
No.
Yes.
A man named Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
It's his house.
Um My mother  puts  um  presents under the tree  and stocking  she put candy and stuff in there,  and oranges and fruits.
And when we wake up- when we wake up,  and w-  we wanna know what's under the tree and picked out things that say they're ours.
A bike.
Sting Ray.
Um  a gun.
Man from my uncle, a gun.
He set it up.
It's a gun,  you put-  put  things-  part- things-  separated things on it.
A spot that- Mm.
I don't think so.
Yeah I got hurt before.
When my dog, he always on my bike and he made me fall off my bike.
I got hurt.
Yes sir.
About a little girl, she was on fifteenth street.
She crossed the street.
She's, I think she was around about five ye- or four years old.
Three.
And a car hit her,  and she fell.
Look like she was in- do like she was dead.
I don't say nothing.