My name is RD-NAME-4.
One  two  three four  five six seven  eight  nine ten.
Um- Well,  in hopscotch, see,  you go up and down a board  a couple of times,  and then-  and um,  after that,  you try to throw for a lucky number.
And you- you get three chances to throw for this number.
And if you t- and- and  between the three numbers,  you have to pick  which number that you want.
And when you get to this number, you have to put two feet in it.
And you-  and you only  can  step in this block or touch it.
Um, in girls law,  you have to write  um,  some um, words on the ground like-  the gir- the words are girls, foods,  cigarettes, cars, meats,  colors,  and there's-  and there's twelve of 'em.
And when you get to each one,  you bounce the ball and you say, colors are  pink, blue, red,  orange, yellow,  til you get to the end, you say, out.
And  when we play Hide and Go Seek on the uh- uh-  We put our foot in, and we say  sort of a riddle like,  and  the one who's out  last is the one who's it.
And that person hides his face on  any kind of item.
And um,  after that,  the- he counts to a certain number,  ten and twenty or thirty.
And or either says a rhyme like, my mother, your mother hang out the clothes.
My mother socked your mother in the nose.
Did it hurt?
And the people shout, yeah, no, whether they're ready.
And the other person  comes looking for them.
Um,  another one is- Oh yeah.
Doodie doggie please step out.
And another one is um,    Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out.
What color was his blood?
And a person says a color and you go around and see who that one-  who's gonna get out.
And if you out, everybody be jumping, be all happy so you don't be it.
Um,  it w- it-  e-  um-  let's see.
She- she was babysitting for-  for a friend of hers,  and um,  her father- See, she was a witch.
She was babysitting for a friend of hers,  and her father, a witch,  came  and took the baby,  and took him  to a special place.
And um, where all the other witches hang out  and tried to show  or display  the baby's talent.
But it was nothing but a mere mortal,  so he was very  displeased and took the child back.
And so she was angry, and she said to him,  um,  this-  And she said,  you know what?
You've had a mere mortal baby.
And she said, well this is not my child.
I'll take it up with you later.
Well,  I'm'a tell you another one.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
It was this- It was one about-  It's called Thorougly Modern Millie and Julie Andrews is playing it.
And um,  she- she- she saw these pretty looking girls.
They was uh, all hip and everything.
They had minis and  stockings and    high heels and  sandals,  and short hair, bob.
Um, jewelry and earrings.
And she was all-  she was all old fashion cause she had on long dresses,    a long dress on and  all  shoe-  She had shoes on like a nun wears.
She had  her hair in Shirley Temple curls.
She ain't had not a drop of jewelry on.
And the clothes that the other girls had on  were I'd say sort of loud  because they had pink on and-  and white yellow and all that.
It was real-  You know it stood out.
But she had on a dull grey.
I mean,  she wasn't, you know, she wasn't anything.
He's-  She's- she-  she looked upon herself as old fashioned.
So she went into the store and changed into a- just a entirely different girl.
She looked just as good as the rest of 'em.
Huh?
She put-  See she saw another girl  with a um,  an um-  She saw a girl with a um,  short and beanie on, so she ran in  and a minute-  m- minute later,  she just- she ran in, came straight out, and she had it on.
And she- and then she saw another girl with some-  with a- You know, them long necklace that come way down here?
And so she wanted do the same!
So then  she um,  she went in, and a minute later she was out.
And  she saw some other girls with stockings on.
Them um-  them um, thin- real thin ones and fish nets and so she went in there,  and got some um, nylon stockings.
They were white.
And she- and um,  she um,  went in there and did the same.
And then  she was just like the rest of 'em.
She shut her hair.
She got her hair cut.
Uh,  um, I babysit a boy.
His name is RD-NAME-3.
And he's uh, one years old.
And-  um,    he knows that I talk, and I- if I say something, he'll say it.
He repeat it.
Like if I say, truck, he say, truck.
Car.
ice cream man and everything.
And- and you can ask him anything, and he- I mean he'll answer it!
He's so smart.
He's very, you know, he's bright.
And  m-  and um, I was reading a story to him.
It was um,  about the prince  and a dog.
M- Yeah, something like that.
It was- No.
It was the prince  and the princess.
And so,  it w- it- it started off, you know, once upon a time, so and so,  and this girl, the princess, she was very very very boney.
And so were the rest of her family.
And she was boney.
She was having blue eyes.
And-  and she- she- Her mother always told her,  when you get a queen my love,  you must learn how to walk like one.
So each day she had to d- w- walk  with three books on her head,  without dropping a one.
And for every dr- book she rop-  for every book she dropped,  that was five more times to walk.
And it w- and he was laughing and-  and m- you know, when one- when he stand behind his mother, I say, peek-a-boo!
And- Ooh, he just laugh- He just loves when we do that.
He really laughs.
I say, peek-a-boo!
Peek-a-boo!
He just laughs back.
Oh.
Miss RD-NAME-3, she's-  she's all old fashion and everything.
I mean every time you see- every time she sees somebody  that looks, you know,  a way out to her, and she suspend them for three days.
That's why her nobody in our school likes her.
And so um,    one day,  w- um, some b- some boys was acting up and she got to their ears,  and they were crying.
And my teacher got after 'em and everything.
And my teacher,  she's nice.
And if you be nice to her, she'll be nice to you.
Because one time, the girls got in trouble and she got us out.
Oh,  that- that was the one I just got finished telling you about.
Her name was Miss-  And her name was Miss RD-NAME-1.
And she was nice, and- and- and if you be nice to her and do good work, and go home and study instead of going outside- running outside,  m- you know, she would- she would- she would make good grades for you.
And my aunt-   Let's see, when I say she make good grades for you- See, I had a aunt,  and she was eleven years old.
She's twelve now.
Her name is RD-NAME-4.
And um,  she ha- she was a Negro,  and she had to go into a- and-  s- it was no more room  In- um, fifth grade rooms   um, for her.
And she-  and so,   she had to go  in this um, class with all white children, she was the only one.
And so,  all the white kids, they-  all of 'em- not a one in there could stand her, not a one  cause she was a Negro.
And- and she never did nothing to nobody.
She was always-  You know, she was a nice girl and everything.
And she had a white teacher too,  and he was you know-  he was bald on top and nothing but hair around here.
And he was a man.
And he didn't like her.
He was gonna make her stay back.
She worked  A's, nothing but  A's and B's and C's  all the time!
All the time she brought those homes, and then he's gonna give-  and she- and-  and then he's gonna give her  D's in all of her work.
And so  h- her mother,  went down there and ask 'em, why is-  is this true?
And he said, yeah.
She doesn't never know how to act  or hand in-  And then  my- and my grandmother said- She's my grandmother because  he- she's her daughter.
He's- and she's my aunt.
And so  my grandmother said, well I don't know whether  RD-NAME-2's been acting up in class or not because I'm not here and I can't say.
She said, but for- ever since um, RD-NAME-2 started school, she's always made good grades and she's never stayed back.
And- and- and she's uh, never been a problem with no- no- no teachers that I've had.
And you know, there are kids like that.
You very seldom find one like that.
And so anyway,  she say,  um,  I'm not gonna sit up here and let you  have my child staying back.
And so the principal knew my grandmother  cause it was a old school- You know RD-SCHOOL-3?
That's a old school.
My grandmother went to it.
And so, um,  she went down and talked to the principal, and the principal-  And she even- she brought-  she brought the work down there.
She s- w-  went home,  and took all RD-NAME-2's work and brought it down and show it to the principal.
And she said,  Miss- I forgot her name-  And here's all RD-NAME-2's work, and then  he talking about he's gonna give her a D in every subject.
And so she talked to him, and- and they put him out.
And so there was a Negro teacher in place,  and- and- and a Negro  teacher,  she did not have an integrated class.
It was alright for her.
She was teaching children  and that's her job.
And so she taught her.
And not a one- and not a white- and not a white child in there liked her.
And that was all.
Mm-mm.
She She moved it, now she lives over there  in Congress Park.
Her and her mother just live  by themselves.
She has one child.
And so um,  she goes to RD-SCHOOL-2 now.
It's about uh,  five or six blocks away.
Or four.
Something like that.
Oh.
Miss RD-NAME-2- No, that wasn't Miss RD-NAME-4.
That was Miss RD-NAME-1.
She loved to holler all the time.
Yeah.
You know, big mouth self.
Oh.
Well,  they can't sta- they- they like me a whole lot.
Soon as I get my hair pressed, they can't stand me.
Because you know, I have a lot of friends that you know, there hair just-  you know, they don't have  m- good hair.
I ain't saying I have it,  but it's long.
It's longer than theirs.
They think it's l- uh matter long to them  cause they ain't got that much.
And so  this is where I used to live.
And where I live now,  I don't care whether you got hair down to nineteen.
I don't care if you got hair down to South Carolina.
If you know how to act, and you be their friend, they'll be your.
Where I used to live on Twenty First Street, they can't stand you.
Because if you ain't- if you ain't like them, then they can't stand you because  they can't see-  stand to see nobody  to have all this and they ain't got it.
And see where I live now, the people that- You know the girl I told you about, RD-NAME-4?
Well she didn't have much either.
She comes to school looking very bad.
And you know, I feel sort of sorry for her cause she ain't got too much- Anyway.
I took her-  She- she go- she comes to- to my house sometime,  and she saw my house and she swore I was rich.
I mean I didn't have that much!
All I had was just- Just cause a person have a room to theirself, that ain't-  You know, that's not- that's not the whole world.
I mean, but I can see her point of view because the way she lives,  you know.
She doesn't have that much.
And what- and what a little bit I have,  she think, you know, it's a mansion.
But I wish it was so much.
Mm-hm.
Well, it's a- it's a big girl.
Her name is RD-NAME-2.
She's around fifteen.
She's nice.
See her-  her name is RD-NAME-3.
And- and- and her little brother  is name  RD-NAME-2, the one I babysit.
That's why I-  I hang around her so much because I have to take care of him.
And she lives with him cause he's her brother.
I give him a bath, and boy,  he's crazy.
And um- Well,   um, we p-  We go out!
Well most of the time, all we do is go out.
Sometime.
To the movies and-  but when- the o- the big girls, they go  to uh,  McDonald's at night.
My mother says that um,  I'm a um- a child, and that I sh- I should get my proper rest.
And so she lets me- she tells- tells me I have to come in  at nine.
And I look at television for a little while and then I go to bed.
I look at television til around ten.
Well um,  all of us-  all of 'em speak a English language,  but uh- it's one named RD-NAME-2, she's a good friend of mine.
She comes from down South and you know,  she doesn't talk-  She talks English,  but she talk- doesn't talk just like,  uh,  the DC s-  people do.
I mean when she said- when I recognized it,  when she said,  Kennedy, she didn't say, Kennedy,  she said, Kennedy, something like that.
You know.
She didn't say it- You know, she sound- she sounded like a Southerner.
She didn't sound like a, you know, Washingtonian.
Mm-mm.
I have several white-  you know, white friends.
See where I live- I mean,  where my cousin RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2 live-  they're three and two-  I go visit them, and I aunt for their mother.
And so  um,  they live up in Maryland, you know.
And so,  they're a coup- uh- I met one named  RD-NAME-3.
One name RD-NAME-2 and  and all them girls.
They're nice too.
I mean, you don't have to be you know,  all- You don't have to be all white,  all Negro  to have good friends.
I mean,  I mean, there are some bad peo- white people in the world just like there are bad Negros.
But s- you know, some people-  some  wh-  white people  are pretty neat.
I mean they ain't bad at all.
And some Negros don't think that though.
Ooh!
Got a job.
Ooh!
What?
Oh yeah!
Did you surprise me all right.
Five dollars.
Oh whoa baby, I'm going to ball tonight!
I'm going to McDonald's!
That's the first thing I wanna do.
And then I'm saving the rest.
I'm putting three dollars or either two in my bank.
And I owe- Hold it.
Oh- Oh.
I owe my father some money.
He bought me a baby cap, and I told him I was gonna pay him back.
I'll- I- But I say, hey dad, here's your money.
And he'll probably say,  go on, keep it.
I hope he say that so bad!
Oh!
I'm'a put this money in the bank.
I'm putting three in the bank and I'm keeping two out.
Gonna- That'll make four cause I already got one in the bank already.
Oh I'm saving it for my mother and father when  certain  occasions come up,  Christmas, Thanksgiving,  they birthdays.
I have to, you know- I give them- I always give 'em something.
Um, well on Christmas, my mother believes in staying home.
And my father do too because  down in the Chris-  Or, I'll say in those-  during those ten and eleven days-  those ten  and eleven days,  people they- they do too much, you know.
They drink and I mean, they really live it up.
And they all drunk.
Ain't no telling what happen out there.
And everything.
So we stay home like a family.
And we have other people that come visit us, but we don't go visit, you know, very often.
Not while the snow is on the ground and real icey and everything.
My mother sai- Yeah, one little doll named Heidi.
She's about so high, say about two inches.
I mean  you know,  little tiny ones.
Her name was um,  um,  Heidi.
And there's a little button right so,  say around her navel, and you push it and the arm  goes like this.
And when you click- and when you- the arm gets so far back, and it clicks.
And then you know it's back there to stay.
And as soon as you push this in-  like this,  saying, hi,  like that,  like she's saying, hi- waving hi to you.
And  it's pretty neat.
And I got a sort of-  I got a- I got a um-  I got a table with her.
You know how the table comes apart and little- take the little piece out, and you put that little- I have that.
It's a little strip that goes in between the table to make it wider, and I have a cab- the bot- You know the bottom of the cabinets?
I have that.
And little tiny dishes and  little forks no bigger than your fingernail, and that's real nice.
I got  a little pocketbook with her,  a case that keeps her in.
Um,  well um,  a ho-  w- Thanksgiving, um,  and    Christmas and let me see.
It's one more I know.
No.
M-  President's birthday and things like that.
We go places.
Like we'll go to the monument and stuff like that.
Last year for Christmas we went out  after the snow had cleared up and it was my-  I was out for- on my ten days  of holiday.
Where my pen?
M-  Anyway,  and we went to see the Christmas trees.
You know they have a- they- it's a lot of lot of Christmas trees.
And right- And it's- Let's see- Let's just say  it's around a hundred.
W- No, it's fifty.
That's right, cause it's fifty states.
And in front of each one,  there's a-  a square about so  wide and so  tall  with a little stick on it sticking in the ground.
And it says Hong Kong, Hawaii, DC, Washington- You know.
It has the name from where the tree came from.
And- and they got one from Mexico and all of that.
And right in the middle-  I forgot where that one was from-  But right in the middle,  and it's twelve or  how much I forgot?
And how many- On each side,  there is this huge tree!
I mean it is  big.
Say starting from the ground all the way up to the tip top of that wire up st- up to the  thing.
That tree is hu- tremendous.
That's the biggest tree I have ever seen.
I mean that tree is big, and it  got light- I mean got-  it got bulbs on it that big!
Whoo!
And- and it gots all this material down to hold it up  at the bottom.
And it was some  it's steel stuff to hold it up.
It ain't got no strings or nothing.
And they got- One of 'em real  big thing go that big to hold the end of it up.
You know them thing that you- when you tweeze it in.
I mean,  tweeze it in.
You push- you  ride it in.
You know what I'm saying?
Well it may sound stupid, but I w- I'd wanna be an actress.
Well, my mo- I've asked my mother about that.
And she, she didn't go into I mean, far-  further details,  but she said that-  I told her I wanted to be a actress in dancing.
And so she said  that for one thing, you have to  go through college and-  and when you get out- and- to find a job,  you take up a course in dancing.
And so and then after you do this,  you learn how to dance.
I mean, and then- then if you good enough, you go qualify for certain things.
And then you get higher and higher and higher a- I mean, and one day you'll make it, but who knows.
Yeah, right in front of the mirror.
Yeah, I call myself practicing anyway.
Well you know how you see- um,  seeing these pictures out  in the desert,  when you come to this little town.
They got music on like this,   and all that stuff like that.
Well,  It was this girl playing in this movie,  and she did that,  you know-  It's sort of old fashioned, but  it-  it looks neat.
Neato.
And I think I like to do that for a living.
And they say- My father says that being a actress is- is n- is not as fun as you would think.
He says that being a actress is miserable and half the people you see in Hollywood die  is because  I mean, they got  all this, you know- They don't know- they don't know what to do with it.
But I said, well you don't- You don't have to worry about that Pops.
When I get big, I'm'a know what to do.
I said, I'm'a put my money in the bank, and I'm'a save, cause on day I'm gonna go somewhere.
I mean  like to Hawaii or Florida, and I'm gonna have some money to go.
I'm not gonna just go out and spend it for everything I want.
And I mean if I had this five dollars, now- if I-  I mean, if I was like some people I know,  every time money you get, like you ain't never seen money, go out there and spend it just like that.
I go out there and buy me clothes  galore.
Shoes, I want a pair of sandals so bad, but I don't wanna spend this.
I'm saving this.
That's right.
Oh yeah.
I been in so many plays.
I been-  but I always play as a short  person.
I was the baby bunny in- in the bunny play.
It was a big girl,  must have been the size of I don't know, and there I am at the end.
And  they b- they build a  house of cardboard, and you go through it and talk and all that jazz.
And I've been in- I was- I was going to RD-SCHOOL-2 High- Junior High School.
You see, you know that apartment, nineteen ten?
Well, it- there's a uh- a residence in there  called a den.
And they have a daughter, and- and- and the daughter  has two friends, and they're in a group.
It's called the Candies, or the um,  um-  That's not what it's called.
Yeah, something like that.
You know- You know those ones that you hang on tree-  Christmas tree?
Yeah, the Candy Cane.
That's what they are.
And so anyway,  um,  they're in that- That's the name of they group.
And they sing s- uh- s-  s- uh, songs like,  Going out of my head, Stoned Soul Picnic,  um,  and um,  um, one call-  What's it called?
Let's Take a Chance, you know.
And I- and I- and I was in they group.
I was singing  the lead of My Baby Must be a Magician.
And they were singing the background.
And I was going to-  um-  um, RD-SCHOOL-2 High School to sing.
But they cancelled it because of all the riots.
It was cancelled.
Yeah.
But I really feel bad.
I wa- I was so dependent.
And I was gonna wear- I was gonna wear  a mini-  a- um, a mini um-  a mini  silky  blue  culottes.
And they was gonna wear real long  long earrings with a ball, and I was gonna  wear the same type of earrings  only shorter.
You know, my mother don't like long earrings on me.
And  I don't-  And um,  I was gonna wear  s- some  fish nets or some little thin clear s-  s- stockings.
Oh, Lord, yeah.
I was in the- I was at the beach.
I coulda sworn I was dead.
I was-  I-   I was swimming,  and um,  I was  out in the water doing like this, dog paddle.
And um,  all of a sudden I got a cramp, right here.
You know how your feet go like that?
I got a cramp  right there.
And back joint was stiff as I ain't know what.
And all I could do was just do like this.
And this one was going like that.
And I couldn't make it.
I couldn't make it to the shore.
Oh, I said I was  gonna be a goner.
And boy, I was saying, hey ma, come on down here, but I was hollering worser than that.
I was saying, help!
I was horrible.
I was saying, I got a cramp!
Got a cramp in my um-   in my f- in my- in uh- What's this called right here?
I forgot.
Right here.
Yeah, that- that- that's it.
I said, I got- I say, I got a cramp in my ankle, ma!
I can't make it!
She said, come on in here, girl.
I know you're just faking.
I said, ma, I can't make it!
Just like that.
And- and the lifeguard saw I couldn't make it cause I was tryna  do like this to keep myself on top of the water, and the lifeguard saw this, and so he jumped in after me.
And I was-  I s- I said my mother was just cracking up,  thought- just knew I was p- playing.
I said, ma, next time I'm playing, help me!
Said you never know, man.
Mm, well I don't because I- I- I don't wanna die.
But I mean when my time is come, I- I'm ready.
You know?
I- I wouldn't wanna be warned or nothing cause,  no!
I'm gonna die!
I'm gonna die!
I'm gonna die!
That's all I'll be doing.
I mean I be nervous- I be a nervous wreck!
From that time until I- I- til I took my place.
Mm-mm, I sure wouldn't.
I'd die before my time.