RD-NAME-5.
Eleven and a half.
RD-ADDRESS-5.
Northwest.
Yeah.
I play kickball, jump rope.
Sometime I just be at home.
That's all.
Uh,  team-  two team- You have to have two team.
Usually you have boys on one side, girls on other.
And then they roll the ball and then you kick it.
And then you have to- you- you- a-  And if they get three outs-  If you kick the ball, and they catch it, that's one out.
Then it's  things called  fouls,  and that's when it roll over first base.
You know, that don't mean nothing.
You have to kick over.
Yeah, if they get you out,  if they tag you with the ball or touch the base, then you out.
Double Dutch.
Uh-  Two people be at each end, carrying a rope like this.
And a person or two- or how many people wanna be in,  m- get in and them jump rope.
One, two, three, four.
Like that.
Mm-hm.
Game that you buy.
You know,  like a game that you buy downtown, like that.
Them kind of games.
Ha- I have a .
I have uh-  Booby Trap, I have.
Um,  do you have- You have to- Um,  H- You had a- You have a little board piece like this.
Then you had this thing down here, and you um-  um,  have all these little balls like this.
And you pull this  thing out, and you can't let none of them balls jump out.
If you do,  somebody else get a turn.
You can see how many  them things you can pull out  but um,  keep in there without them things falling out.
Me and my sister had a Monopoly.
Monopoly game.
It's a thing that has  stuff on the end of it.
It's a piece of card-  cardboard thing  that has stuff on the end of it, and you-  and uh- Think you deal these dices.
And um,  you uh-  uh- i- uh,  has some kind of thing you put on over here-  Or- Yeah, I think that's how you play.
And then you have another one called uh,  some  k- sorts like money or something.
And you deal these dice, and then you try to get a house.
And you- you get to  take your money from the bank, and then you receive money from the bank.
Then you go the poor house.
And then you have to uh, put some money in the poor house every time you go past it.
Mother, May I?
Goose.
M- Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  a girl be standing way far from away from me.
And- and two people- a lot of people be standing back.
And you say- And she say  your name, and she say uh, how many steps you p-  sposta take.
And you sposta say,  Mother, may I?
And then she tell you yes, you can take it.
She tell you no, you have to stay back.
Yeah, vaguely.
What do they say- Simon say, do this?
Simon- Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh,  you have- You pick a person.
You can be in a circle, a line, or like.
But you don't have to be in no kind of  form or nothing like that.
And then you s- And if she say, Simon say do this, then you have to do this every time he say Simon say.
If he say, I said I do this shit, and you do it, you out.
She call you to do s-  I don't know.
Almost like-  They almost alike,  except you have to be in a line of some sort.
And then she call your name, but Simon Say you don't call your name.
He just say, uh Simon say do this.
It's like that.
Mm-hm.
No.
No.
Foot- Uh, yeah.
Well,  I can catch some boy-  some balls.
We play um,    five  step.
Like um,  I have few boys on my side,  few other girls they have-  But on the other side, they have  few boys, few girl.
And every time they throw a ball and we catch it, we take five big steps  toward- back  toward them.
We move them back,  th- th- they take- they catch the ball, they move us  back like this.
And s- That's the only way I know how to play.
You have a  first chooser and a second chooser.
And like a whole- You have your-  you- you have these people, alright you say like- I say  if I was first chooser, and you were second chooser, I say,  Well I want  uh-  If there was a girl named Sheila, and a boy named John or something.
I want Sheila!
And he can say, I want John!
And then I can say another person on my side like that  til everybody, you know, gets onto either side.
Then that's when we start play-  or sometime you just say- or at school, we just say boys on one side; girls on the other.
Like that.
Eenie meenie miney- like- Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Eenie meenie miney moe,  catch a monkey by his toe.
If he hollers let him go.
Eenie meenie miney moe.
Engine engine number nine.
Going down  line.
Um,    I forgotten that song.
I forgot the rest.
When we play single, we say um- um- We say a thing called Banana.
Banana.
Play the piano.
Banana Anna, play the piano.
All she can do is  play-  flay  Star Spangled Banner.
Banana.
Banana split.
And you have to get the rope between your leg.
You have to jump up like that.
Then we-  Then we you uh, have a single or double, you s- we say-  When we wanna play D-I-S, we say, D-I-S-H, jumping on Smith.
And where they stop on that's what they gots  s- um, do when they- when they s-  go come- when they next go come.
See, you say-  So like, they have one, two, three, and they have- first they- first they go- they have D-I-S-H, and they say, D-I-S-H, double our Spanish.
D-I-S-H.
And then you stop like if you- you miss on H  where you're on your one two three.
You gotta hop on one foot, and I mean hop.
Like that.
Mm-hm.
Double dutch.
That mean you don't have to do nothing.
You know, just jump like you jumping now.
I means uh-  uh-  um-  See, what the I mean?
I don't know.
I forgot what I mean.
D-I-S-H.
I-  S mean um,  hi it-  uh,  Whatcha call that thing- You have to take your rope, and you put it on one feet, and you take that one and swing,  and they have to get it.
S-H.
Double large.
Spanish - Spanish-  Spanish, you do  the same thing, but you don't hold it.
You just swing both in it, and then they got to- Then you have to turn the rope .
And then the um-  then-  like you g- get on you.
You have to take under large.
That's when you turn back this a way.
Turn that a way, and then you have to jump that way.
Under large.
Mm-hm.
I just watch TV.
Here's Lucy and I Love Lucy.
Yeah, one  tee uh-  Lucy was having a baby, and she-  every time she wanted tell her husband,  her-  Ethel, her down neigh-  s- her neighbors downstairs, they wanted-  They kept on coming up, interrupting her, and the phones kept ringing like that.
So then uh,  phones kept on ringing, so she went down to his-  this uh,  show at the night time- He was doing this show for the- some people,  and she went down there, and she told him.
He was singing Rockabye Baby, and he was singing all them song.
He- He was happy when she said-  When uh, she sent a message out by this man, say, I'm having a baby.
Would you sing  Rockabye Baby for me?
And he-  and he went around asking everybody.
When he came to Lucy,  Lucy said Yeah.
He kept on singing, then he turned around.
He said, mine.
It's my baby.
Like that.
So then they started singing that like that.
And then it went off.
That's the one I like.
Yeah, six o'clock.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
My favorite Martian.
And um,  I L-  I Dream of Jeannie and  um,  .
The Monday night, Tuesday night movies.
Like if anything be on good.
And I look at movie four.
And I look at  uh,  Dark Shadow.
And I look  at  um-  Well I forgot what other kind of shows I look at.
Mm-mm.
They made a creation and creation living.
You know Anna one of the creations, so they made the creation.
The creation living now.
Her name was Eve, and his name was Adam.
And he- And th- that man named Peter, Vicky's-  the one she sposta be marrying-  She like- She- She like him now, but he don't like her.
And she said that Vicky  and him, and they not gonna get married.
And Angelique  she bit Barnabus.
And she bit Joe, and she- and she called Barn- She saw him and Barnabus.
She told Barns to come  and-  and get um-  get  uh-  get him out of there- get him out of there.
You know, he had stabbed his own self cause she didn't want him no more.
She had got Barn.
So she told him to carry him out in the woods.
She told  Barnabus to carry Joe out in the wood,  so Joe- Barnabus didn't carry Joe out in the woods.
He took him home,  and you- you know, made him live.
And so they discovered him two mark holes in his neck.
And um,  now he living now,  but I don't know about today cause um,  Nicholas,  let's see.
who i- she was going with was Maggie,  and  Nicholas asked,  and she went and seen Joe in his bad condition, but they didn't tell him that the uh-  that-  that uh, Angelique had bit him.
And s-  And then he had- He w- n-  kept-  kept being bite by a vampire  and so  she said- so Nicholas asked her to marry him,  and she said no because of the shape that Adam was-  I mean that Joe was in,  so she- And then so he get- he told this boy to take this poison  and put it in Joe medicine.
When he drink it, then he would die  and so that um,  Maggie could  marry him so he asked Mary- she- Maggie, he marry her.
So that boy did.
I don't- I ain't see it today cause I came down here.
Mm-hm.
I ain't really- Mm-mm.
I mostly stay on with my Friday.
No, I ain't hardly look at that.
Used to.
N- Uh,  Dean Martin.
Mm-hm.
Dean Martin.
It was with a lot of these girls on this island.
And I saw one about James Bond.
Double oh seven.
That was long long time ago.
I don't hardly go there.
Cause my money get scarce.
We had a cat.
Yeah, but when we moved down to nine thirteen- We used to live twelve thirty nine- Moved on down on thirteenth, we left our cat there.
He was my sister's.
Yeah.
She called him Smith.
That's her boyfriend name.
You know, a black and white cat.
He was stupid.
He let other cats beat him up.
Then he beat up his wife.
M-  Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
His wife was grey and white.
She was a real skinny.
She had some kittens.
I don't know what she did with 'em.
They were getting big though,  and she- they, you know, I guess they  ran away somewhere, and they were by theyself.
A puppy.
And I ain't gonna have a big dog.
When he got big, I was gonna give him away.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
We go to different classes.
I go to   Miss RD-NAME-1.
She come from Greek.
She know Greek language like that.
We- I go to her too for Health and Science and Social Studies,  and I stay at my homeroom  for everything else, I think.
Take Music from Miss RD-NAME-1.
I take phys ed from  man named Mister RD-NAME-2.
And    that's all.
None of 'em.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
It's my homeroom teacher.
Yeah.
I'm taking Math.
We take  Language,  and  we take  Handwriting.
Like that.
No.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
And my Science teacher, she- I mean he-  He-  I c- He's fat,  and he don't know how to write.
He don't know how to spelled.
You have to spell words for him.
Yeah, he didn't know how to spell kangaroo.
Mm-hm.
He didn't know how to spell kangaroo,  and he didn't know how to spell alligator.
He asked my teacher.
He looked it up in the dictionary.
He  found it.
You know, Mrs.
RD-NAME-3.
He didn't know how!
Mm-hm.
Go home and go to bed.
Mm-mm.
Oh, to- tomorrow night, I go to Study Hall  tutoring.
We go- I'm going- We have a t- Halloween party, and I go and- after the-  um, my teacher done-  ch- uh, my tutor,  she gonna take me and uh, two other girls over my- over her house tomorrow.
We gonna have another party over her house.
She help me with my work.
Like that.
Well we read.
We paint.
We do like that.
We go out.
And then she-  This  last- This Sunday past,  she took me over her house, and we had dinner.
She live across the street from RD-NAME-2.
You see, he- when you come there, on the first day of September, we start back to school, s- you go every  Thursday.
But when you first come there, you- uh, there'll be a lot of teachers and you g-  go out, and you grab a teacher.
Me and a boy had a fight.
Over this teacher.
Over this teacher.
He said, it's my teacher.
I said, you ain't getting her.
Like that.
So he left her alone.
Yeah, I had a fight over it.
No.
Reach for the hair.
Reach for anything.
I don't know.
As long as I get 'em scratched.
Bite.
Kick.
I look at people.
Man, they worry.
When it's my sister wear something of mine,  and then uh,  when I get mad, I get starting to cry, and that's what makes me mad.
Then somebody do something,  I tell 'em to  throw me like a- this girl name RD-NAME-2,  she'll take the ball and run with the ball.
I said, throw me the ball, and she still be running.
That made me mad.
Like that.
Get real mad.
Yeah, they make me mad.
Like Miss RD-NAME-2.
Teacher- My home te-  She don't let you get out and put  trash in the trash can.
That make me mad right there.
We had a accident outside our school.
She pushed a boy down.
He was- He had .
She pushed him right down.
He bumped his head.
And he started crying.
Say, you pushed me again.
Like that.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
We had one teacher that children  made her so mad, she went outside and started crying.
No, it wasn't fair.
We kept on acting out, and she just went right on outside and started cry-  And we had a teacher that left that's now a probation officer.
Not at our school, somewhere.
Name Mister RD-NAME-1, and we- he was crying.
Mm-hm.
He w- See, him and his-  See,  he- he live where Miss RD-NAME-2 live, in that apartment eleven eleven, across the street from us.
So he- he- him and his , they went down to sign up for this thing, and they didn't know- he didn't know he was gonna get this job.
He didn't want it.
He was just fooling around.
Someone slide, and it slipped so then they call him- they send him a letter  over the summer,  and told him that they be writing back to him.
So he said he didn't want the job then, but he had already signed up for it.
Probation off- He started crying.
All us started crying.
But them Chinese people, they didn't want him to .
He had a mother sent away.
He had about eight or nine cakes, and they all different kind.
I got me a piece of one.
Piece of one.
And we coulda got all eight- We coulda got  pieces of all eight of 'em, but I didn't want all eight of 'em cause- Miss RD-NAME-2.
No, she don't holler at me cause I holler at her back.
She don't holler at me.
Cause I holler at her back.
Cause    uh-uh.
She doesn't holler at me cause I done holler at her back.
She don't mess with me.
She tell me to sit down, and I sit down.
And then like, you finish this work!
She going all the way- I don't care how try- how hard you try you do, she gonna always tell you something wrong with it.
Like you write your handwriting,  and you make some letters, she gonna always tell you, you try to do it your best, she gonna always tell you something wrong now.
That's the best you can do, and she gonna tell you that's wrong.
And um, like um, Arithmetic,  we had uh,  this thing we had to do,  in  w- she-  So I- I didn't write the way I found the answer, and she made me do it over.
And I said  I wasn't gonna do it over.
So what she do- goes and do is go tell Mister RD-NAME-1.
Mister RD-NAME-1 come in there, started talking- Yeah.
I don't like him neither, cause he mean.
But he scared though.
Like you say- or you go and get your mother or father,  he'll chicken out.
Back up.
And what else?
Let's see now.
Like,  uh,  when you finish this work, she gonna give you a lot a more.
She don't want you j- stop getting busy now.
You done did all the work like you said.
I did this.
I did this.
She won't let you read your library books or nothing.
She tell you to keep on on something else.
And then you finished all your work now, and she gonna tell you to keep on with something else.
All them children get so mad at her.
All except the Chinese.
I don't see how they can stand her.
They love to do some work.
Boy named Paul, I just- I just can't stand him.
He wanna do every- work every second.
And she- And she-    She wants to do something, too, so she keep on doing it.
You go to school?
You went to college?
Well last year- Yeah, the one we loved, Mister RD-NAME-2.
Yeah, I like him.
He jone on you.
I'd say, I'm'a tell my mother you was RD-NAME-1.
RD-NAME-1 say, yeah, tell your mom punch him in the face.
Like that.
He said, RD-NAME-1, how about that time you came to my house, you were hungry.
And I fed you a hamburger.
Like that.
He- he jone on you like that.
He say, you bring back a dirty piece of paper, I'm'a jone on you.
He jone on you.
He make you embarrassed in front of all these people.
Yeah, I- we had some fun with him.
He wasn't so strict like she is.
Yeah.
We want another man teacher.
Some man teachers.
Man teachers?
Don't be so strict,  Don't, you don't-  and um,  holler at you all the time, and  let you do something all the- our teacher we got now, she won't even let us play a game.
It's no one outside when it's  time for us to go outside.
She done make us-  She'll make us f-  ten minutes late.
We sposta go in-  sposta go out ten minutes til eleven, come back five after eleven.
Now she wait til eleven o'clock, and then take us out.
And we only have but  five minutes to play.
And we just stay on outside.
We don't come in.
Lieutenant.
Yeah, I- this my first time on  this year.
I had seven votes.
We voted at school, and I had seven and   boy name RD-NAME-3, he had ten votes.
And this girl- that girl that was outside that say she didn't want that -  she's a sergeant.
All the patrols.
All the patrol that wanna be chose be in a room.
We have meeting.
Like that, and they take and uh- uh, they-  we vote.
They write a- she give us a piece of paper, and you write down the name.
I wrote down my own name.
I voted for myself.
Y- I- Yeah, I wanted to be a captain, but long- just as long I wasn't the lowest thing there is.
She the lowest thing that is.
I can rule her-  I can tell her what to do.
She can't tell me.
But the captain tell me what to do.
I can't tell him- But I can tell everybody else  under me.
All of 'em except him.
I can tell everybody what to do except the captain.
Me.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
I have one .
They don't wanna fight.
They don't wanna  They don't say nasty word like that.
I mean, you know, like somebody pick on you.
You hit 'em back, but you know, they don't wanna fight everybody they see.
I don't like the people that talk about people.
Like that.
And call people names like that.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Me.
I don't know.
I don't know.
They just listen to me.
When I  tell to do, they do it.
When somebody else tell them, they don't do it.
But if I say, go ahead- And if I'm not around- I don't know who it is when I'm not around.
No, I be- I like- No, I let them play what they wanna play.
You know I play with them.
They-  They select some games, then I select some games.
Mm, I don't know.
I don't know.
I can beat all of 'em.
Mm-mm.
Hey, all them meant to chicken out.
Alright?
I don't get scared.
Cause, they wanna fight me, I wanna fight them.
I don't chicken out.
Mm-hm.
Not anybody.
You know.
Don't have to do nothing.
I, just like I said, I don't like people talking about people.
I don't like them kind of people.
I wanna be a teacher.
Or a nurse.
Or work in a restaurant.
Go to college.
I don't wanna go.
Cause they do too much work.
Ooh.
A good teacher.
Teacher.
I don't- I don't wanna holler.
I don't want my children to be acting bad.
I let them do something.
I don't be strict like that.
I don't- I let them do some things.
But you know, it can't get out of hand.
Half.
No, one- one-  one fourth of it.
Four million.
Buy me a house,  some clothes, some furniture, like that.
And put it in the bank.
Like that.
Mm-mm.
They go out.
Like that.
To parties and cabaret.
Mm.
I be over with my friends.
We play games.
Sometime they- he ride us out in Maryland.
See our aunts and cousin, like that.
Tape recorder.
I ain't.
Tape people.
My bicycle.