S-  Marbles,  basketball,  football, baseball.
Mm, let's see.
Usually um- Alright.
You on your knees, and uh,  little round balls.
Mm, about-  It's- It's so small.
And you uh,  put it-  b- draw a circle and  put all the marbles in 'em.
Each man- each boy have a marble to hisself,  and you shoot and  all the marbles you knock out the circle belong to you.
And you put your own marbles up.
Mm, Bunkeye.
Bumper.
That's her name.
Yes.
It's for a large marble.
Mm.
Oh yes, .
Oh, uh, if it's two baskets, we usually play uh,  whole court.
That's  five men against e-  five against five.
And you know, you usually play til thirty two.
First team score thirty two  wins.
Or you be playing three.
And you know,  three against three.
Still thirty two point game.
Usually call them yourself if somebody fouled you, unless you were playing organized basketball.
Oh you call them yourself.
Yeah, quite a few.
Oh, tag?
Yeah.
Let me see.
M-  Usually have a piece of paper or anything.
Whoever, you know,  got it,  int- you know, is 'it'.
You had to catch somebody and give it to them.
Then they'll be it, and you have to- Then they have to catch you or- or catch somebody else.
You would- You know, e-  eenie meenie miney moe until the last person, and then he'd be it.
And give everybody a chance to get away.
Then you got to ch- catch 'em.
Not that I can remember.
Let's see, it's nine- It's nine men against each other.
And  you can have a first baseman,  second baseman,  third baseman,  catcher,  short stop,  center field, left field, and right field,  and a pitcher.
And  anyway.
See you um-  The pitcher usually pitch  you know, first.
Three strikes you're out,  or you get four balls, you walk.
Strikes you know, right cross,  in between your knee and your  t- shoulders.
And  if you hit the ball, you get on base or if somebody catch it, you're out.
Yeah,  or  it's you h-  Anybody catch a ball that you knock up in the air, that's out.
Anybody you know- Catcher catch a ball that's ten feet out, that's out.
And- and that's how it go.
Mm- It's hard.
You  knock a ground ball and somebody can throw you out.
Catch it- pick it up off the ground and throw it to  base you running to and you can be out.
Yeah.
Um,  It Take a Thief.
Let me see.
That's one.
Well, when he get- when he went s- uh, he stealing a little girl,  better steal the first one that came on, I like, you know, all that.
When it first- P- Picture first came on, there was- He was- Alexander Mundy was in jail,  and he was uh- uh- a painter, artist.
And he was painting a picture,  and so the reverend had came to see him,    and he was uh, planning on breaking out,  and-  and he had told the reverend that.
He was gonna teach him how to paint and told the reverend to change his clothes.
And he got the reverend some clothes to put on,  so he wouldn't mess up his  suit.
And he put on the reverend's clothes and  fake beard,  and was-  as- just as he was getting past the gates,  a man came and said that he had a parole for Alexander Mundy.
And uh,  he said-  the po- he s-  at- he is-  supposing that the preacher,  and  said that he would take it to him and you know,  he went back, changed up, and came on back out  on parole.
And uh,  government car picked him up,  and told him that uh,  you- he had a job for him.
And he asked what was it, and he said, it's steal  for the uh, Uncle Sam.
So he said, steal for Uncle Sam?
Picture went on and uh,  they, you know, gave him a new wardrobe,  house with cameras you know, watching every move he make, cause he's  big time play boy.
And he usually had a girl working with him on every job.
Yeah, he-  Not- He not no s- He not a spy, nothing like that.
He just  steals you know,  stuff for the government  that Uncle Sam need or you know, something that can't be, you know- It's took, and it had to be stolen.
Mm-  Bonnie and Clyde.
It's about uh,  girl and a  boy.
They weren't really girl and boy- They about-  I'd say about Bonnie wasn't no more than twenty five,  twenty-six years old.
And uh, Clyde, he was the boy,  and he had just got out of jail.
So he had cut his toes off so he can get parole, and he had let- they had let him out of jail.
And he came by this uh- Bonnie's house.
And he's looking in Bonnie's mother car, and she- she was up in the room  in bed, and she didn't wanna get up and go to work.
So she look out the window and told him,  uh,  boy, don't steal that car.
And so he said oh, he wasn't gonna steal the car, so she came on out  and it got-  They had a conversation, then  he walked- bought her a soda.
Then she asked him what kind of work did he do,  so he said rob banks.
So she say, um, she didn't believe him.
So he told her to wait a minute, and he went and robbed a little store- corner store.
And so then they stole a car, and they got out- they went out of town.
And then they  went on robbing and robbing banks, stores, anything.
Good part of it was when they uh,  robbed a st- robbed one store,  and the man tried to uh,  cut him with a meat cutter, and he beat him up real bad.
He killed quite a few pictures in the-  people in the picture.
And  they end up- they pick up another boy, um-  I think it was  Moss.
His last name was Moss, something like that.
And um,  and he's- he asked them.
Uh, they told him they robbed banks, you know.
He was working at a gas station and he was real good in fixing cars, so  they picked him up so he can help fix the car that they stole.
And then he v- he- she- he uh, robbed the  uh, gas station that he was working at.
And it was three of 'em, Bonnie and Clyde.
So they met up with  Clyde's brother and his wife.
And she was one of the shake it type, you know.
His wife and his brother.
They was all- all f- five of 'em was in a house together.
And his wife and his brother  got killed by the uh, policeman.
And then they went on robbing.
Then they went back to uh, Clyde- I mean uh,  uh-  I think it was JD Moss, something like that.
They went back to his home town  and stayed at his father's house.
And it was a big reward out for him, so um,  his father told him that he-  told  uh, Moss that he was gonna  turn Bonnie and Clyde in.
And s-  you know, next job they sposta let him know, so he can turn 'em in and get the reward.
And you know,  then when he turn- when the police came, that he  hid  so he wouldn't get caught and  you know, they would give him life sentence.
And so um,  they robbed the bank and-  and Moss didn't come back with 'em.
And  The father was e- o- out on the highway with his truck broke down on purpose  to stop 'em and  then they- when they stopped,  the police all came out of the bushes and everything,  killed 'em with machine guns, shot guns, everything.
They shot 'em up real bad.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Mm, cat and a hamster.
Yeah, it's not mine but it's my little brother's.
We have a  cage for the hamster stay in and uh,  you, you know, keep paper in the cage.
And you know,  keep him fed and watered and just about every week.
It's f- uh, hamster food.
It's food special for hamster.
Mm-hm.
Mm, we had two.
One of 'em died.
I think he had two male or two female.
You know, never did have no children you know, pet.
Cause  they had 'em about a year before the one died.
Then he went and got another one, and it still was two-  And it still must have been two males or  two females cause they still didn't have no children.
And you know, they always was fighting at night.
And they run all night and play- You know, sleep all day.
Tom.
Yeah, quite often.
Let me think.
Comes up in the room, get in the bed,  you know, jumps up in the window on the screen,  runs back down, you know,  runs all the time.
Uh-uh.
Um, keep him in.
Usually let- take him out in the day time.
You- you know, he's still a kitten.
Um,  cat food,  milk,  and water sometime.
He very seldom drink water.
Mm-hm.
Um,  English, Math,  s- Geography and Civics  and you know, it's two periods of shop.
General shop.
That's it.
You know, you take up anything you- you want to.
At RD-SCHOOL-1.
I think this was English and a language and  s- No, it was-  Elementary was different from, you know, high school.
It was  you know, mostly,  you know, you stay in one class all day.
And she would give you m- maybe  Arithmetic in the morning,  Spelling,  and maybe Reading.
That's in the morning.
After lunch, he'll probably give you  Language and  some other- Maybe Art in the evening.
Or Music.
Mm-    We usually  get out of school, run around, you go in the store.
You know, jive around the store and come on out.
Play about a hour before we went home.
That was a group I, you know, was with.
Some of them went right home.
A whole lot of times we stay around, and play around the school.
Chase the girls.
Then we finally  end up home.
Yeah, they- they do about the same thing.
I say that cause my little brother- You know, I have a little brother still in elementary, and he do about the same thing I did.
Mm, usually go home or  stay on a corners or, you know.
Mm, go play basketball.
You know,  anything or  most of 'em, you know- some-  some have jobs after school.
And go on a job.
Mm, let me see.
Mm,   yeah, I got one now.
Uh,  just you know- I think she just holler to hear herself holler, tell the truth.
Cause you know- Come into class and,  sit down!
You leave and,  get in line!
You know, anything just to holler.
I think just to hear herself holler.
Mm-  Mm, once or twice, you know.
I say she was fair.
I know one time she was fair, you know.
It was one of the days  everybody having fun.
I think it-  Soon as it started getting warm this year, we- You know, how you go into class after playing basketball.
And you warm, you know,  and you know how you get to talking.
You know, I guess she  you know,  let- wanted let us know before it got  any hotter this- in this year, that you know,  where she- where she stood at you know.
Mm, let me see.
That's my Civics teacher.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
Hm.
Mm-  I like her because she take time, you know,  to teach, and  she devote all her time to her students, you know.
Like she have uh,  lunch period  and a free period.
And if you not here one day, she'll tell you.
The following day,  you see her on the free period  or at lunch period.
And you know, about your subject, or you can come after school, and she'll help you make out for what you missed.
Mm.
Let me see.
Miss RD-NAME-3.
Yeah, why?
Uh, she w-  You know, I think, you know, she was  prejudice something, you know.
She-  She- I was, you know-  Is it- Is it alright talk about, you know, race?
You know, it's-  I was uh-  uh-  It was me and another Negro in her class.
A white-  And the rest, you know, was white children.
And, you know,  she called me and him  Double Trouble,  you know.
We don't do this and don't do that.
You know, and one time,  you know, she gave me a F, so my mother told me, you know,  save my- all my work that I did.
You know, I told her, I- I had work that I did last time, you know, a notebook full of work.
So she told me just keep it in order in this time, you know.
And-  And when she- If she gave me another F next time, you know, show her.
So every paper I did, I dated,  and you know,  put the date on it  and the grade was on it that she put on it.
And you know,  did book reports, put the date on that,  and you know, she  graded.
And every- And you know, then when she failed me again,  you know, I took it home, and then my mother took it to the office, you know.
And then they looked at it, and then they called it in.
And she said it was a mistake.
Hm.
Mm.
Let me see, last year it was.
I believe it was April Fool's Day.
Put a um,  tacks on a piece of tape  and  teacher sat on it.
Let me see.
And uh,  you- I don't know, I guess it was no- Really-  One- one instance, I don't think it was really a joke on-  of any type, you know.
Teacher failed a kid, and uh,  he took uh-  took all the tires off her car.
You know, when she-  And you know, still did- You know, he didn't take 'em off.
He uns- loosened all the wheel,  and I think somebody told her before she drove off.
I think it- You know, she never did find out who did it, but you know.
Somebody told her that it-  think somebody had took the wheels loose.
Oh, the teacher, she sat on 'em, but   she is kind of hot.
She  said she was gonna fail everybody in class, but I think sh- you know,  she found out who did it, and I think he was put out of school.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, it was uh-  Believe it was four of us, I think.
It was  me and  three other boys always were together.
After school, during school,  Saturday, Sundays.
Went to show together, you know.
And a  couple of girl- We had a girlfriend.
Mm, we uh- mostly we got in trouble together.
If one of us in trouble, you know,  all of us was in it.
You know, wasn't no real trouble but you're not- Yeah, I mean, young.
And  you always took  n-  calling ourselves big boys and you know,  went to movies with the girls.
Never did pay they way in.
Alway- You know, j-  they-  We met 'em at the movies and made sure they was in before we got there.
Nah.
Think it wasn't that way really.
We always looked up to one of 'em, you know.
It was  the oldest one.
That was RD-NAME-2.
We always looked up to him.
Cause he was you know, biggest-  biggest of us.
See when I was in elementary school, I weighed  a hundred eighty pounds.
And you know, now I'm weighing in at one five-  Um, I mean one hundred fifty five.
And five eleven, you know, I was about  four feet two, four feet three.
You know, we- little short fat boy then, you know.
Couldn't move around too much.
Mm.
Yeah, it was-  Yeah he would- he would- You know he- He had most ideas at most time, you know.
Yeah.
He didn't have to really do it- You know,  it's a- maybe a fight,  see if he can fight or something like that, you know.
And push him around, see if you know,  we call it  and sees if he have any heart.
That's what most people call it.
And if you don't no heart,  you can't, you know, walk with us.
Cause-  Talk-  And really when we was in elementary school, we was  sposta been, you know,  roughest boys there, us four.
You know, in order to hang with us, you had to  be just as rough.
And you had to do everything we did or  you know, couldn't tell on us if we did this or couldn't tell if we did that.
Two of 'em.
Why- I mean I still- You know, we don't hang together.
We still friends, and you know,  we see each other now and then.
One of 'em is a  you know-  He uh,  singing now.
You know, singing with a  group,  and the other one, you know, he's working in the evening at school.
I mean he working during the day and going to school at night.
You know.
And that's- I'm usually with him,  sometime you know- Most of the time I'm with him.
And the other two- They tell me one of 'em went to Army,  and the other one  you know, he just  grew up fast and you know,  got him a car.
He big time, they say.
It's-  I don't- I don't usually hang with, you know,  a new group of fellas because you know,  I figure I like  uh- go by myself, you know.
Cause you can do what you wanna then.
You don't have to say, is it alright?
You know,  you wanna do this.
You wanna do that.
You know, you have to come to agreement.
But when you're by yourself, you know,  okay, you do what you wanna do.
You know, you go to this party if you wanna go.
You go that party.
You know, like I said-  I hang out over- I stay over in Alexandria  a lot.
You know, I have friends over there but  I usually-  When I'm over there,  I'm usually playing pool or up in the pool room playing pool or  you know,  out with a friend.
We were just you know, hanging around the house.
Mm-hm.
I'm planning on when I get out  of twelfth grade, I'm planning on  going to college.
I'm'a try to get me a scholarhip, you know.
Basketball, football scholarship.
And go to college, and  I really wanna take up- You know, go to law school.
Eight years  in school.
And I think something like  two or three practi- You know.
Well you know,  I like you know,  be around people, you know.
I he- h-  you know, help people a whole lot, and uh, you know, like I say,  always like to see, you know,  people in-  you know that- that's right-  you know,  be right.
I don't like to see nobody punished for nothing they didn't really do.
Or you know, see 'em get a break once and that, you know.
You know.
But you know,  I talked to a lawyer one time.
He wasn't a lawyer yet.
He was going to law school.
And he tell me,  don't do it.
You know, it's- you know,  don't come to-  Don't go to law school.
Do anything but that.
Don't go to law school.
Be a doctor.
He said it's too long and too hard, the studies, you know.
But I figure like this.
If you, you know- it's something you really wanna do-  Like I say, he tell me not to do it, but you know, he still- still you know, beating them books.
And but it- You know, he tell me not to do it.
See, but he-  You know, like I said, he wanted to do it, and he wanted to finish it.
So I figure if I wanna do it bad enough, you know, I'll go and start and- and finish it too.
I still play sports.
Uh, football,  basketball.
I play that  the most.
And uh,  run track every-  maybe every other year.
I  used to play sports for the Boy's Club.
You know.
Let me see.
We-  we won this year.
We won uh,  about thirty games out of  thirty two.
We lost two games  this year.
And now we're in the uh-  It's one team that beat us last year.
Um,  let me see.
Beat us  ninety five to  thirty.
And that was RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, and they're one of the  best bask- basketball team.
It was their JV and uh,  this year,  it was me and-  Really,  We really planned it, you know.
That  this last summer,  all of us work,  and that we would  go on the basketball court  around August and st-  You know, when we go back to school,  we'll talk to the  coach, and tell him that we wanna, you know,  use the gym at school cause it's- You know, it's not-  not supposed to uh, have no basketball team practice  you know before  a season.
You know, and and to- it's a certain time you're supposed to start practice for each  sport.
And so we told him instead of, you know-  you know, him getting into it.
You know, just let us come after school,  and was it five of us,  and uh,  I think four of us made first string, and one-  and the- another boy came up for the team, and  I guess he really was a-  better than the fifth man.
In, you know,  I played  guard, and the the boy that made the team,  made the first five, played guard.
And he was pretty good,  and we had a center and two forwards.
And  we came out- You know, we went play- We played RD-SCHOOL-2 JV twice.
And  both times we beat 'em by  at least  twenty points or thirty points.
And that was the only two games they lost that year.
And, you know, they-  they- they-  They told us that they wanted to play us again, you know.
You know, they- I guess, it was our after season, you know.
I guess they felt they didn't- didn't wanna have that on they record that we beat them twice.
And we told 'em let 'em play us, you know.
And he didn't wanna let us play them, you know, see.
Mm, yeah.
Oh I guess I'm-  First off,  get all my whole family together.
Try to buy  m- s- some place, you know, in the suburbs.
You know, not no houses,  you know, just  one big-  big field, you know,  acres of land.
And  have it all, you know,  knocked down and  fixed up,  put  a house for each family on it.
You know, have my family- have my house- my fam- the house that my family live in  with- That be my mother and grandmother and sister and brothers.
I have them all live in that  one- the biggest house on the block.
And then have me a house to myself, you know.
Could have my own wardrobe,  and have my little brothers- get all my family, you know,  my-  you know, immediate family  w- different new wardrobes, everything new.
Have each one of 'em a car, you know, they able to drive.
And then set up a  big business, some kind of  you know, invest my money in- Something in  job that will set me up with real, you know,  business that's gonna make money.
You know,  maybe even build a school or something like law school, you know.
Know, high spend anything, you know,  all that money, and be a highest bidder, you know.
Something that's gonna make more money, you know, keep on growing, you know.
Invest, you know- help  kids out there, you know, that wasn't as fortunate me.
You know.
Yeah.
Mm,  see I-  And- and that's when I'm like, you buy me a store or something like that.
A clothing store.
We could have  clothes come directly from France to me, you know.
I us- I mostly have custom tailored stuff- all tailored you know, for me.
Maybe have my own tailor.
You know, get stuff from France and have them tailor it for me.
Best shoes, best slacks.
Probably be the best dressed man, you know, in the- in the States.
Oh, we- well- My mother usually put you know, the smaller kids to bed  about ten o'clock.
And you know,  now they getting a little too big for the-  believe that she put the coffee down there for Santa Claus, you know.
And  you know, she usually put-  put 'em all to bed,  and then you know, we'll hide a  toy that we getting 'em,  somewhere else.
Whether they believe in Santa Claus or not, she still don't let 'em see what she got 'em.
They tell her what she wants, she say, I'll try to get it.
She usually get it,  and you know have it somewhere else,  and bring it in, you know, about twelve thirty, one o'clock.
She'll wake 'em up, you know,  tell 'em to  come on downstairs, see what they got.
Then we stay down there  you know, usually drinking  coffee or  tea or something like that.
Mother usually buy  wine and  fix up a ham and tater salad.
And then on Christmas morning, we usually go Virginia,  see our grandmother and grandfather.
Then you know-  Then come back home,  and I usually go out and you know, stay over there,  and go  maybe roller skating or something like that.
Mm, it was a pool table.
Eight by four.
Regulation pool table.
And I ain't- I didn't really think she was gonna buy that, you know.
I told her that all I wanted  for Christmas was  a pool table.
You know, I figure  I ain't tell her nothing else, she'll  probably get it.
You know, she really-  I didn't think she was gonna buy me one that big you know because if you live in apartment, but she bought me a reg-  a regulation pool table.
You know, I-  and I stay on that  playing all the time, you know.
I want one day to be a pool shark.
I- I keep it in my bedroom.
Ba- back on holidays, you know.
In the summer I usually bring it downstairs.
I mean, you know,  it's you know, not too-  in the winter because you know,  people coming in and you- going out.
In the summer when everybody relaxing you know,  I usually bring downstairs, put in the dining-  in the uh, front room.
I- I don't- I don't know.
I can't say I really thought I might die, but  I was unconscious for  long time, you know.
I think it was  a day e- from this uh, cut up in the head,  fell in some steps.
And you know, hit my head on uh,  pipe,  and it went up into my head over my eye.
You know, I-  mean I-  Before I- You know, I-  I w- I was, you know,  conscious  for about a hour, you know.
And the man told my mother it was very serious, and I thought, you know,  I thought I wasn't gonna make it.
And then I-  You know, they say I passed out.
And it was- I think it was next day when I came to, you know.
They had me in a  you know,  room with a bag on my head you know.
But that's not- I mean, I think they right about that you know.
I mean-  I mean- that's- it's some things that you can prevent from happening,  but n-  Like people say,  if you gonna die, you gonna die anyway you know.
Can't nobody stop you from dying.
You know, if it's serious, you know.
And you right- they right about that, you know.
Like you- they tell you got cancer or something like that  or you got brain damage and uh-  you- you know you can't live s-  for too long from something like that you know.
So we-  It's gotta happen.