Name.
Ah,  RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2 Mm-hm.
Well,  uh,  they were mostly um  type of running games.
Uh,  which, uh,  like, uh, one called, uh  I Spy,  tag.
That's when we were small.
Yes, uh Well,  well, I tell you,  uh, I understand that the correct pronunciation for it is I Spy but uh we always called it, I think High Spy, I think.
You'd  run  around a uh,  well uh,  one of the kids would put his head against the tree or against the wall.
And you run and hide,  and he'd have to come to find you.
Then you have to  beat him back  to the place where he left, you see.
Now, if he beats you back,  after he sees where you are hiding,  now  that is a sort of a  mark against you.
And of course  you take the  losing ma- man's uh, the losing  child's place  on the  next uh, you might call it, inning, of the game you see,  if he gets back before you get back  to this place where he left.
No, any place beside a tr- well uh  eyes up to a tree or  against a brick wall,  just so he couldn't see  where the other kids are running to hide.
It might be behind a  tree or  in those days were penny wagons around, you know.
And you could hide behind a wagon or,  and uh also there were quite a few vacant lots at that time.
And uh  of course you could uh  hide on the vacant- in the- on the vacant lots behind trees and what not.
No, we didn't call it home.
In fact I've never heard of the word- a game called home.
Uh.
Well, let's see now.
Yes, well I don't recall how we exactly t- pick the person who was it.
We just started off playing.
Uh uh, well, it's hard to say just- I just don't recall how  we decided   uh how the pers- to pick the person who was  it.
Cause that's- that was the person who had to  hide his face while the others  ran to hide.
No, no.
Maybe that was the version of the same game  in other parts of the  um, other parts of the city or maybe other parts of the States,  but, uh, no, we didn't uh play that one.
No.
Well,  you stand a certain place- it's almost like the same even when you didn't hide.
Well, the  uh,  the one who was it,  uh  would have to  catch  one of the-  one of the other kids, you know?
And the one that he  tags,  that's the one who was  'it'.
And uh,  and from then on that's the way they played the game.
Yes.
I suppose the uh,  my most regular one at this time  uh,  the one I, uh, is the uh,  I- I prefer  uh the um  Meet the Press.
Uh yes, that's one I prefer.
Uh, that's my- they only come on- it's only on once a week, of course.
But I prefer to see that if I can catch it.
And also if there is a  worthwhile witness on there- sometimes the uh  you- is uh, uh  person on uh  uh  on uh  Meet the Press to me isn't worth seeing.
So at that case I would uh,  wouldn't wanna bother with him.
Now you k- take a man like Secretary  Rusk,  I like him on TV.
I mean, uh, there are some people that on- on the  Meet the Press, to me  give straight forward answers  to the questions that you ask them.
Secretary Rusk,  Hubert Humphrey,  uh  I would like uh-  uh there's another person on there too, in politics.
Uh,  I don't mind  hearing Er-  Dick Nixon.
Uh, he is not my  favorite one, but I like to hear him talk sometimes.
Uh, uh, I like to hear, he has a  debatable way of talking, but uh he's not one of my favorite uh  persons appear on- on uh, Meet the Press.
And there's- there are several others who have been on there from time to time that I like, too.
And of course I like the uh-  get ideas on Meet the Press from those uh-  from the persons from foreign countries.
They're quite interesting  on uh, on Meet the Press.
Then uh,  for the lighter side,  I like the  Beverly Hillbillies.
I- that's I guess it's because uh there's something about uh  the one who plays the part of-  of Granny on there.
I think she's a wonderful person, but e-e- everybody on  the Hill- uh Beverly Hillbillies to me  uh  is a wonderful actor,  and I really enjoy that.
I see it almost everyday because I'm here  when it comes on.
So- Yes, it's on every day at ten thirty except uh,  Saturdays I think, and it's on another time on Saturdays I think.
I think it's on in the afternoon on Saturdays.
Mm-hm.
But I- I usually see it on- in the mornings, at ten thirty in the mornings.
Let's see now.
I don't re- uh,  I mean, I couldn't give the full story of it.
Uh,  I could if I sat out and studied it.
If I- for instance- for instance, if I'd- I'd known you wanted to ask that question  I would have probably had the ch-  I would have a chance to um  study that, you see, or if I woulda  observed the one this morning.
But I didn't get a chance to do the one this morning because I was  busy in the-  raking leaves in the backyard.
Trying to catch up on some of the spring cleaning on the outside.
But uh, I don't recall any spe- uh  special ones which I could tell the whole story.
I just enjoy their  acting on the television,  and I'm-  and I haven't seen  one yet in which there was a dull moment.
Yes,  there was one uh  plot in which  Granny went to the races.
I don't remember- remember all the details,  but I do recall  that was the- one of the funniest that  I have seen  on there.
The day Granny went to the races.
N-  yes.
Well, I don't remember the exact details, I just recall that it was uh,  uh, I do recall that  she bet on a horse  that was supposed to have  lost the race,  but it turned out that the horse won the race.
And uh,  well I don't recall the rest of it, but it was really funny.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
This reminds me one at night time.
What is it?
Uh   comes on late at night, some detective story.
No?
We've got four of them here.
Oh, if I turn one on,  and it- it's a detective story,  I'll like it, but I- i- if I'm in a mood to hear it- I- I'll  probably  well just sit there and look at it, you know.
But I don't have  many which who I prefer, so I just sit down and catch one now.
For instance, like this afternoon at four thirty,  I like to catch the um,  story that comes on four thirty on  WR- WRC TV uh because  there's a time when I-  I worked around the house.
I've had my lunch.
I've had my afternoon  nap and I'm ready to  see a  TV show before  dinner, you see.
And it comes right in time for that.
I don't know wh- I don't know what will be there on this afternoon, but, uh  I'll p- I won't see it this afternoon,  but I mean I usually look at it on the four thirty, because I have to- I'll have to take the car to the shop you see.
I can't take it  let's see this afternoon.
Some days I can't see it.
Yes, I go to the movies,  uh quite a bit.
Went to see one last night.
Yes.
Well,  uh  it was  ex-, er- uh an exciting movie.
Uh,  I go see different types of movies.
The one last night, of course, I saw was the one about, ah,    I- And is uh, I went to see an exciting movie last night,  but it wasn't- it uh  that was intended for adults only,  more or less.
I don't think it was advertised that way, but it sh- if it was not, it should have been advertised that way.
Yes, uh-huh, I wouldn't take a kid of mine there, but it was a good story.
It's- it's a normal story and  had to do with crime and what not, but it was a good story.
It wasn't suited for  children,  and uh  so uh,  but I  also saw the-  the picture entitled  The Guest Who Came For Dinner.
I saw that, too.
I might go back- go back uh- and it- that particular picture,  uh,  I thought it would be a lot of comedy, well it was a lot of comedy in it,  but there's a lot of serious,  uh seriousness to it, too.
Well, it was about uh,  the uh,  this white girl  being en-  uh become engaged to this colored man.
You know, Sydney Poitier was the  actor,  was the man.
Uh-huh.
And uh  he was invited  and- and oh  then he was invited to come to dinner.
His parents  didn't approve of the engagement.
As a matter of fact  his parents disapproved,  according to the picture, most- more than her parents  did.
Course he- her parents put up the battle, too.
But since it was their daughter,  they  gave in.
They gave in to her wishes and what not.
And uh,  not without some opposition.
And uh,  but his father  was quite  bitter.
He was about the most bitter of all.
Yes, he was.
Uh-huh.
He was just  breaking convention,  and uh  of course,  as his father  lived  that type of-  of a breakthrough  as he saw it, was not for his son.
Yes, uh-huh.
But it came out that uh  the guest  th- uh, it- it wound up that uh they -  they, that engagement went through as  the girl had planned,  and what not.
Oh,  there was a lot of room for comedy in that uh yes, well, uh  when this  uh the snow called- the so-called snobs came in  who were  uh,  some people who were  the wi- the um  the um  fiancee's  friends-  of the friend- of their- her- of her family rather.
They're the ones that uh  were real  comic  in their resistance to the girl be- becoming engaged to this  colored man.
It was really funny.
That part was funny,  and of course,  the seriousness of his father  was such  that it  reverted back  to the  comic side, you know?
I mean you can get so serious that you- you can become uh  funny  to-  to your uh viewers,  but not to the father himself.
Wasn't funny to him.
But he was so serious about being bent against  his son marrying this girl,  that it got to the point I mean he had a real  grouchy, look on his face and if you've never seen a man that  uh showing that much opposition  from his expression,  the picture's worthwhile seeing.
Oh, it- it's they have a pretty full house there.
Mm-hm.
It's been there for ov- ab- b- it's been there uh  almost three weeks now, I think, at the Palace.
Yes, we had a pet once  that couldn't be a p- a pet that wasn't a pet.
Oh, yes.
We had others- had others here too.
Uh,  we had a dog here, a Doberman Pincher.
And uh  but she was uh  sort of mentally unbalanced.
Oh yes, oh yes.
Many dogs here I think mentally unbalanced.
One of 'em back here now thinks mental, the way he chases cars I think is mentally unbalanced.
He does a lot of crazy things, chases birds.
Yes, I- I think there plenty animals that are  well, maybe not, b- you wouldn't call him mentally unbalanced as I said it.
Uh, I- I just- he's- maybe he's just not a conventional dog.
I mean you can make friends with him.
Maybe he's not mentally unbalanced, but uh,  maybe I use a too s- a too strong a term for a dog,  uh but, uh, he- he- he wasn't a too a friendly dog.
Well no Pinchers are.
Usually Pinchers are one man dogs anyway.
But uh  this one  uh,  he just didn't uh  act like a regular dog acts.
Even th- um uh the- the- the uh um  eccentric Pinchers,  which are eccentric dogs.
and this one was most eccentric.
I can use the c- word eccentric for a dog, can I?
Well, you call him for his fo- his- call her for her food, she wouldn't come to you.
And after a while you call  until you're tired,  and you see her peaking around the corner of the building  and things.
And so uh,  she had some puppies.
We had to have her destroyed  because uh  of the illness that resulted from the birth of the puppies.
Had to have her destroyed.
We've had  um  a parakeet here.
We've had a canary.
Don't have any now.
Uh  we st- we have- we have a tropical fish here now.
Mm-hm.
Yes, uh-huh.
Quite interesting I think.
Yeah, yeah- not oxygen.
We have air, not oxygen Yes, uh-huh.
And uh,  we also have  uh,  we have a um  filters down there and also have the  pump-  air pump.
And also uh  I have a- a pump down there attached to steam engine.
Well, I- I don't- we haven't used it yet, but I can use it for that purpose.
Yeah, I'm gonna use it.
I had it operating the other day  uh, on the steam engine to see how it work and it took off like a jet.
Oh yes, like a steam engine  So it's uh  uh,  one of the largest steam engines that you can get  uh  which you might can use as a sort of a hobby,  you know.
And steam engines, I've had two.
This is the biggest one I've- I have  there now is the  operate every night- I had to operate another night down there while I was  looking at television.
Well, they have to call it a hobby because I like to fool with them.
I always did like steam engines.
You know that- that- this is something that uh  that hangs on to me ever since I was  a small kid.
You know, the fire department used to have steam engines to pump water.
Steam pumpers, that's before your time.
You don't remember that I don't supp- unless you see one in a museum.
Yes, uh they have them in the- in the Smithsonian and uh and uh some places, they have different types.
They have a uh  um    I can't think of what the name is called.
A steam engine, but i- it's a- it doesn't as pump as much as a direct pumping engine pumps.
I mean the-  the direct pumping engines have more capacity than the-  the other type.
And uh,  I have always been an admirer of steam engines.
I- when I was in the- in the department I used to go and inspect buildings  and uh, I g-, inspect the ammonia plants  those that operated by steam.
I would watch them for a long time.
Just look at them.
It always fascinated me , and also the-  the trains.
Trains always, uh  railroad trains  always-  the uh  steam engines always fascinated me.
I'd go to watch 'em,  wait for one to come past the different areas when I was a kid, you know.
See them shoot pass and  uh  coming into Washington and  places like that.
Matter of fact, I raced one one time.
Yes, I was going to um  Chicago from Detroit  uh  back in nineteen thirty-five.
I had a nineteen thirty-five Ford at that time.
Brand new car.
The was one of the  first-  that was the first V eight,  but it was one of the first V eight engines that th- Ford put out.
And I raced.
I was on a  high speed highway,  and I was racing a New York Central train.
It was, I guess on its way from to Chicago from um  uh Detroit.
That's what I was-  where I was on a way for to anyway, and he was  almost side by side with me.
And I raced that train, and  I went  beside him neck to neck  at seventy five miles an hour.
So uh-  I thought- got- that- I- then I said that's too long.
I cut down.
Racing of trains.
He had the right of way, and I didn't have a right of the way.
Although, the- the- the uh  the- the uh  roadway now was uh not as unlimited.
But uh,  just racing the train,  I cut it out.
Uh they permitted the high speed driving on the road, but uh  I just let him go ahead.
Yes, uh-huh.
So, I bought that steam engine.
That's uh,  uh i- it's still with me.
Yesterday's living.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
In grade school?
Well, I went to the Catholic school,  and uh  course all Catholic schools have  religion.
Uh, they have uh  three times a week, they have what is known as catechism.
That is questions and answers,  uh, as to  who made you,  who is God,  uh  the Ten Commandments  and different practices  of your  faith  as a  Roman Catholic.
Then twice a week  they had what is known as Bible History.
That was  not in a- in the cata- catechol form.
That was straight history  but the catechism itself,  what you should do under certain circumstances  of living  was  in the form of questions and answers.
Now, of course they had reading, spelling,  and of course the Catholic schools always had drills  in  the mulitplica- oh, in the uh  tables.
Arithmetic tables.
Addition,  multiplication  subtraction and division.
Mm, they have- they had drills.
I mean if uh uh, if you- you wouldn't guess at at all,  try to  tax your mind,  you'd have to memorize them.
And  they all- everybody recited those tables in concert, which meant  that they weren't hard to memorize, and you'd find a lot of  the uh  pupils that finished in the Catholic schools would know their tables because  they had those drills on tables.
They required that.
Not that they- they were any smarter than the public school children, but the thing of is  something that you do everyday, you won't forget that so very easily.
Well, let's see.
I think the kids  today,  the grade school kids today,  are  well I think they uh, well they're different.
Communication is different.
They have radio, they have TV.
They have means of play-  better means of playing.
They're  better clothed  than we were.
You see all these kids around here, all going to school, they have um,  in bad weather, they have bad weather clothes on.
That's why I wonder sometimes why they close the schools because kids around here are prepared to go in school in snow, and a lot of 'em like it,  you see.
And uh  we didn't- they didn't close school for us.
No.
No, they didn't close school when we were going- it was cold days of going to school, get to school you're so cold you couldn't sit in a chair so well.
But, these kids are well protected against cold.
And they don't have as far to go.
Most of them don't have as far to go, you see.
And uh  but uh  after school,  they'd get a little rough every now and then,  but not uh,  but uh  uh, those days it was to be expected, because uh,  because   I like- I don't- I- I never thought of why it was that the  uh,  well, but  while the kids were little different, little- got a little rough coming home from school.
They had their battles.
They had their battles every now and then.
Uh, someone r- would take somebody's hat in school,  and the boys were loud and teacher corrected him for it,  and of course it was, I'll get you after school.
And that happens, well that happens in s- sometimes now too, but not- I don't think it happens much.
I don't know.
It's hard to say which  is which.
I never had a  tally on that.
But i- I don't see  UH,  they'll play out here,  but as far as uh  fighting, I don't see much of it around kids now.
Hollowed?
Yes, I've- yes, I've had teachers that uh  pretty st- were pretty strict.
I put up- uh, pretty strict on the kids.
I had a sister who was -  uh, one of the Catholic sisters was pretty strict.
She's v- she was very strict.
And uh  and of course there was some  pretty rough  children in the room, too you see?
It's- they had to be strict sometimes.
Uh but they got order.
Most of them got order  in the schools.
Well,  for instance, you know how that is uh,  some people uh  well teachers, you know, are like anybody else.
They have their emotional  problems and what not, and they get disgusted with children sometimes, too because the children don't uh  do what they tell them.
They don't follow the instructions.
And of course,  sometimes the case where the children uh  just don't understand.
In that case it could be the teacher's fault, you see.
And uh,  but uh,  you have uh  some children who w- just wouldn't study- just wouldn't study, too.
That's another case  uh  where the teacher could become impatient with a child, you see.
He's working his-  she's working her tongue off to teach him something,  and he goes home and doesn't study.
And uh,  while she's teaching something, he's playing.
See the- the- that would work on anybody's patience, whether you are a teacher or a nun, whoever you might be,  you see..
And so  uh, yeah- there were problems in those days, a lot of them.
A lot of problems in those days.
The environment wasn't- huh?
The environment wasn't as free then as it was now.
There was so much suppression at that time, you see, that uh,  that weighed on people's minds and on their lives that uh  uh,  you'd have to f-  f-  find this  smooth airs of- of- smooth running yous- for yourself, you see.
And then there is, I guess there are some who  uh  children that adjusted easily  to situations.
What- there weren't too many- as- as many I don't think as there are now days.
Well, I don't know, I take that back because  we are having a lot of trouble nowadays s-  with the,  not so much with the smaller children I don't think, but the- the larger ones,  with teenagers and what not.
But we had our problems though, you d- don't you forget that.
We had uh plenty of them.
As a matter of fact- and I think they're worse than they are today.
Many people say that the problems today are  are worse now.
Maybe in some areas they are pretty bad  but I don't think they are as ba- I know they're not as bad  anywhere,  even in the deep south, as they were those days,  uh  back in those days.
Uh  you s- read in the papers this- this morning where  uh  sixteen white men were  indicted  for killing a Negro in Mississippi.
You hear that in those days.
No, no indeed, you didn't think that  you would've- Oh,  that's right.
No, you'd hear for that in those days.
And I mean there's a lot of- a lot of attached to that.
I mean that uh  uh the uh,  certain people could do no wrong,  and- and uh the others-  everybody was wrong.
Oh yes, definitely so, definitely so.
People- they- maybe- are they aren't changing fast enough for the number of people that we have on our hands.
I mean  and uh, for instance, like uh,  you see we have  so many  uh  people um, both Negroes and whites who are migrating from the south.
Mostly Negroes  because of- they're chased from the farms, and  because there- there's no food for 'em to eat,  and out of the S- S- States, and of course there are in the States,  uh there are still a lot of prejudices in the States, not only in the South, in the North too you see.
And they- and uh  it's  taking its toll- it's showing itself now.
Especially with the uh, I was reading the paper this morning about  where the white people are moving to the suburbs, you see.
And what they- creating a  se- segregated city- city pattern, you see.
Which  there's no st- there are no steps being taken to correct these things as they come up.
But the  Look Magazine  had this  uh, has an article in it and uh,  it's an interesting article  on s-  suburbia,  and uh,  and they have a seem- they seem to have a- they're trying to solve the-  Yes, it's the- the title of it is Scarsdale.
Sc- sc- the scene is laid in Scarsdale, New York,  and uh,  and it's in title, uh, New Role for Suburban Schools.
And uh  they think that  if  they can get the  people to keep- to keep cool and remain where they are- stop- st- to stop keep running  because a Negro moves in- into the neighborhood.
Uh  they could do they- do away with that, but see the thing of it is, uh, but see- but see they are pressured also by their, not only by their own fears,  but also by-  by real estate lobby, you see.
They're interested in making a lot of money and building up new towns,  and uh  if they could- if uh, they might- it might get to the point where they'll have to  adopt  laws  in certain states  to curb the real estate lobby  uh  from  pushing the white people  uh  out into the uh,  further into the suburbia, you see  because of fears of their property running down because a Negro m- moves next to him.
And  it's one of those things of course, and-  and uh  I don't know how they gonna do it,  but uh  it should come to a stand still somewhere that is.
It's not as bad as- I mean whenever  people uh  like that are into insecure of situations like that you know.
Uh  it's like a  sort of a chain reaction  like you know.
Yeah,  because you- you can suppose- uh uh uh course you're a w- uh,  suppose um,  they don't look at it this way, suppose  there is a Negro in the neighborhood  he gonna move in, and it could be a- a well adjusted person for the neighborhood,  but they all white,  you see.
And uh  he wants to buy a house in that neighborhood.
He's got the papers for it, but  things become so unpleasant before he moves in, he decides to not move into the house.
The house is sold to a white person,  who- who does not adopt  a- adopt  adapt well to the neighborhood,  you see.
He could be more trouble-  trouble to the neigh- the- the- neighbors then that Nigger- Negro that they chased out of there, you see.
And uh, course they'd rather take a chance on the white person than the Negro.
But of course the thing of it is , a Negro moving into a neighborhood,  he's got be on his P's and Q's you see.
He's gonna be on his P's and Q's.
He's not gonna  do anything that would ruin his reputation with h- his neighbors.
Not as soon as the- the white person's moving in.
But course people can't see that.
I mean it's- it's the one of those things that- where prejudice has uh,  has  taken its toll.
It's-  it's  there, and it's hard to remove.
What you going to do about it?
So it hasn't- what have to be done about it?
Nothing.
And the Look magazine has a ver- very good article in there I think on that.
Mm-hm.
Now you talking as a- in grade s- grade school you talking, or?
In high school or college?
Well, I've had a lot of good teachers.
A lot of them.
I've had more good teachers than I've had bad teachers.
Oh yes, I mean   although I've- a- as a matter of fact, I don't  recall  having a- what I would call a bad teacher til I got high- to high school.
And that was in- that was only in English.
Uh,  then I had  a teacher  when I was in college  that I didn't think much of him as a teacher,  but he could-  he could be good at times, but for the most part,  I didn't think much of him as a teacher.
His- his uh  way he put his subject over to me was a dry  s- uh uh a dry method.
And sin- incidentally, it was in my field, too.
So uh  I didn't th- think much of him.
He was a PhD from Yale.
But I didn't think much of him as teacher.
But I had others,  and of course that can show up, because uh  from some other teachers that you've had, and to you,  who were more effective  as teachers, you see.
That -  that I associated with?
Well  mainly my, ah, fraternity brothers.
Oh there is anoth- there was another group, too.
There was a group of uh uh-  there was a  a girls club  in the school.
We used to go around with them.
I mean ah,  it wasn't a sister club to the fra- fraternity at all,  but it was uh,  a group that uh, you know how you have parties together, you know, like that you know.
There was more in there.
Not particularly, no.
Only neighborhood kids, that's all.
Well, there were  uh, well there were several uh, couple of them there who's- who was- who- who were uh, who were studying French.
They sp-  spoke it pretty  pretty good.
P- I don't recall any  who were  foreigners.
Foreigners.
Hm.
No, at that time Howard didn't have too many white  at that time we had a- now and then, you see one, but  not too often.
The mainly uh the main  uh, you- you usually saw the white  uh  kids at Howard then at the Medical School,  at uh  but uh  I'd never- you don't come- didn't come across many of them yeah, in the undergraduate's  work at that time.
Now there are a lot of them up there, but uh  I went to RD-SCHOOL-7.
And uh  there weren't ma- there weren't many there at that time.
Yes, I see them.
One goes to my church was in sch- that was in school as we- also one of my frat brothers.
Goes to my church now and uh  as a matter of fact uh, I went back to my fraternity the other day here.
Cause I s- I see some of the fellas,  uh  quite often.
Old frat, but a lot of them are dead.
I guess the uh  for a group,  the main ones that I would find who- that I'm closer to as- as a group now,  is the social club that I belong to.
It's called the RD-WORK-3  RD-WORD-3  Club.
There are more in that group, and of course there's quite a few  who were in school with me at the time, too.
And uh, and I've met  uh  got- become acquainted with subse-  subsequent who might join the club and also uh  people who uh,  just Washington citizens belong to the club, you see.
My social club is but the main one I guess- I think that, uh,  that I know most of fellas in there.
Yes, uh, we had a secretary in there.
Uh, he was secretary for a long time.
And uh  he  was well acquainted with the-  way the club operated  with the constitution by- the constitution and bylaws.
And of course, uh  he was very effective in  keeping the club together, keeping you on the move.
Gave it a sort of a  dynamic atmosphere, you see.
He- he was good at that, and  he's still with us,  but he doesn't function at the- as the secretary because  uh, his work  with the post office  keeps him going from one city to the other.
And that's why he can't function so very well as a secretary anymore.
But when they- and whenever anyone wants any special advice,  uh they don't hesitate to call him.
Well, some total of a lot of things  that go  with a person  who is a leader.
His appearance, his bearing, his talk,  knowledge of the club.
His working- his uh, long time working with the club, his intelligence.
Uh  he knows the club.
He's- he- he knows the history of the club very well.
He knows uh how to operate a club.
I mean the things like that, you see.
And uh  we don't have anyone there that I can recall-  yes, I do too.
We have  one member of the city council, belonged to the club.
He- he knew it very well, too.
But uh  this particular person  is uh  has a sum  total  of most everything  that a person needs  to run a club.
Yes, uh-huh.
Well, they can apply themselves or else  the uh  the other members can  submit names of their friends to get into the club.
It has a limit  to the number that can get in.
There's a limit to the number each year.
So when one person drops out  for any reason  another- another- another one can take his place.
But it doesn't exceed a certain number  of persons,  of members.
No, there are not.
No.
Not that they- they- they're not barred from it.
But it's just that- none- none of them ever joined the club.
They're not barred from it though.
Haha.
Well,  hard to say.
I set out  to be  a doctor of medicine.
That was my ambition.
But  the reason that I uh  went into the field of economics was that  there's a- well- there are a lot of question about  stopping  working and going to school.
See when you go to medical school, you don't work.
You just- just can't work.
However, some fellas have done it,  but uh  I don't know that I could have done it because  I was working four to twelve, you see, and I don't think  I could have  done that very well.
You know that's pretty rough.
You got to give it- you see there are only twenty four hours to a day.
You gotta give eight hours to your work, that's that right there.
And have so many hours of sleep in order to  study effectively.
And uh then you gotta attend school.
Now when are you going to study?
You see, that's the question of what you gonna do, when you-  and you'd  uh reduce a day  to its twenty four hours,  not more, you can't go twenty four and a half hours to a day.
There's only twenty four hours to a day,  and only twenty four hours to a day, and you can't make it more than that.
And you gotta squeeze all that work in twenty four hours.
Now w- how are you gonna do it?
But of course now, I was taking a course in economics,  and I had a professor  who impressed me very much,  and uh,  hanging between that  doubt as to how I would get to the medical school, he impressed me a whole lot.
That's how I went on into the field of economics, and that's why I went.
You mean in- in the- when I left the fire dep- my last days in the fire de- what you mean?
What days you mean?
Well,  uh  my last day's work of course, I- when I was promoted to Battalion Chief, um    the old  ugly race picture came up again in that situation, you see.
And of course, um,  because I got that promotion, it was- I had little trouble getting that promotion.
As a matter of fact I had trouble getting  my promotion both to Captain and Battalion Chief.
I had to uh    file suit in the U.S.
District Court against the  U.S.- DC fire department and the U- United States Civil Service Commission.
Yeah  to get pr- to- so I that could take they  the uh  promotion  for Captain.
You see what they did,  the fire department  with its  uh  segregated policies, you see  adopted a  retroactive  ruling  into its  rules and regulations,  forbidding me  to take the coalition examination for a Captain.
I say retr- retroactive because  I had to  complete a requirement  of five years  in the position as a Lieutenant,  which was three years more than the white  persons had to do, you see.
I had to completed- completed the five years, and then they put this retroactive ruling in there.
My five years were up on May the  fifth, nineteen forty-five,  and they adopted this ruling  on July the twelfth.
That's where they put- that's when they put their foot in their own mouth, you see because  I completed the five years, and then they p- adopt this ruling, you see  and so I went in to s- District Court and filled suit.
C- it cost me a lot of money,  but as a matter of principle there, you see, and I beat 'em in court.
And I took examination  uh  eventually.
Pass it out.