I Spy, and um-  and um,  uh, tag,  uh,  Mother May I,  and Speen the bills-  Sping-  Spill the Beans.
It's- You put your hands over your eyes and count to  ten,  and then you go out and look for,  and you try to get to the base before they  do  and tag 'em out.
And the last one you find, they it.
See you put your shoes and say  um,  Tarzan was in a tree.
You put your feets in.
Everybody put their f-  Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out.
What color was his blood?
Red.
R-E-D spells the word red so you are not  it.
And then you gonna say red or blue or any color.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
And they be it.
Engine eminick in nine speeding down a cargo line.
If the jain-  train should jump your  track,  do you want your money back?
They say yes or no.
And um-  Oh yeah we played a pie and the devil.
Um,  Knock knock knock.
Who is it?
The p-  The devil.
What do you want?
A pie.
What kind?
Strawberry.
And then  if he be king, you got to give it ten dollars.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
And running from- try to catch 'em.
If you don't catch him, he goes in the sugar bowl.
If you don't,  he goes in the garbage can.
You um, turn around.
One, two-  t-  say, Mother, may I take  three giant steps?
And you take three giant step.
If you take three giant steps,  without her telling,  she got to chase you.
And um, red- one, two, three red light-  you got to s-  one, two, three red light and got to try to catch 'em.
Turn all the way around, two, three, four, five.
Like that.
See um,  it's a-  you got to um,  put your feets in  and go,  I s-  No, go,  Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out.
What color was his blood?
Red.
R-E-T-  R-E-D spells the word red and you are not in.
And then, the last one be it.
They got to be-  They got to be in to tag from- try to tag you.
And Mr.
Freeze,  you go-  you do the same thing.
And last one be it, as he tag you got to stay still,  Mr.
Freeze,  til somebody else got to tag you,  and the last one he freezes then  he got to freeze everybody.
And the last one he get, is it.
Bottle caps?
You mean what you take off the soda bottle?
Yeah.
Like um,  throw 'em up in the sky,  make 'em come back down,  and try to hit the other top.
Skelzies?
No.
Green Hornet,  and um-  and Bat-  not Batman,  and   this um,  Lightning  Call him Lightning.
Yes.
When it was on yesterday, he was fighting Batman and Robin.
Huh?
They end up being fighting Joker and them.
And- Huh?
Well,  um, the Eggman,  he- he had made this machine,  and it makes stamps.
Well, he- his man s- caught-  catched all of  um,  Batman and Robin and Green Hornet  and Kato,  and put 'em in there  and pressed that thing.
They came back out  as stamps.
And they- they came out with stamps-  They was stamps.
And they hung them on a wall.
And they say   See tomorrow episode  of it.
Then came on tomorrow  and then  they did um-  They- Robin  and Batman,  he pressed a button  and-  and they uh-  He wasn't in there.
They was inside a machine.
They was inside a machine, but  when they came out, they thought they had-  m-  They pushed that button,  and made a costume on them- of them.
And got under the thing,  and they came back out  and put the Joker and them in there.
And they came out  with it on them.
Well,  like um,  he gon- um,  No it's not.
It call- It's um-  He's something like um,  Apeman.
He- You know, like, it be about  f-  ten mens,  well he'll go around in circles.
He had about fifteen men surround him.
Oh yeah.
He was going around so fast,  he- and there was a hurricane coming,  and um,  he tried to stop it.
And he stopped it though!
And he broke his-  his um, wrist.
And the call let .
Anyway,  he could never um, f-  f- fly again.
So the um-  so he had this ring,  and he come out- and then go out.
He had a red-  red suit,  and he took it out.
So the mens,  some robbers, they was gonna rob the bank.
And they was calling him.
He couldn't-  so he let his whistle  um,  Mess of it  had come out.
So they sh- They shot it,  and he- he-  he was in a wheelchair rolling it around  where they was.
And they shot it, and it came back to 'em and laid down.
He paste it back up.
And then when it-  And then  he got 'em!
And then, he got-  They gave him some sticks to walk on.
And then,  when they went back-  when they went back,  they- they um- they took him back to the hospital,  and th- and th- they took the um,  the thing off  the- the um-  They took it off his leg.
The Stranger in Town.
Well anyway,  he-  he rolled in town.
So  this fat man,  he had killed his sister and his mother  and his-  and his father.
They took his father  and-  took his father  and his sister and cut they hair off.
So when they came back- come in this-  See,  coming back  with everybody  t- looked at 'em, and he went on home.
And he saw three of they-  grays,  so he went back.
It was a fat man  had this hair-  put the hair on his head.
He was bald head.
He took his sister hair and put it on his head.
He kind of fat, and the other man,  Gunslinger,  and then the other one,  it was about f-  ten mens.
So  he went in  t-  he was looking for all of 'em.
So they hire him-  hire him for the S- S- Sheriff.
He get  about  twenty dollars.
Anyway,  when he went around there,  so the man-  and-  They told him who did it,  and he ran out there and say-  and said,  See um, here.
I put this scar on him.
They had put a scar on him when he was little.
And he r- he was looking for him.
So  he said, this a scar you put on me.
He took him  and hit him and took that bread  and got him down on his-  put it all over- stuck it in face.
So when they took him,  and he brung him and they- and he caught- he catched one of 'em.
He was after him himself and the law was after him.
So d- he took him in.
You know, like a prison,  like the army mans  held them in a fort.
All the c-  Well they put 'em in there.
Each day they hang mans.
So they took him in,  and the next man he was looking for,  so he went in this house.
And when he- when he got there,  they had left some gold.
They wanted his father gold cause he had struck gold.
So they wanted it.
So,  he was- he was coming u- back from town,  and they had went in the house, snuck that there  for him.
Took a short cut.
So  he walked in there.
He turned around.
So he know somebody.
He saw the f-  the um, horses d-  so he took the knife.
One of 'em was in a tree  so  he was fast.
So he say-  Like,  he had um-  He had a gun there and a gun there.
So he walk-  he-  and the man say-  was gonna hit him with the knife and hit the ground.
He jumped back and he went down and hit the ground  and the knife stucked in 'em hisself.
So he took the knife out of the man  and crawleded on the ground  and c- started throwing things so they gonna race up there and uh- I mean they sh-  they started shooting at her.
They thought that was him running around.
He kept throwing things  and snucked in the back door.
And then he got one of the mans- one of the mans-  they was scared he got to the door.
He throwed a rock in there!
And then he say,  let's get out of here Frank.
Or are you scared?
Go on!
So he went through the door.
He say-  kicked the door over.
He fell out of the-  one of the mans kept try to get away,  like way down there-  well he took a uh- when of his    and his-   He fell off.
And then he went into town,  and then this old man there,  some mans held- hold up the  um,  stage coach.
And he- he- -  he went in to get-  They had show two movies.
So  when they went into town, they hung that man  and then-  and then when they say,  well that's all the man's.
Here your money.
And then he rode off into the West.
And this was another one name um,  Fistful of Dollars.
Well,  he walked into town-  You know, he had on a-  um-  a  bullet proof,  and his shirts open  and it-  You know the Mexican things- Had 'em hang down like that.
Well he had a gun down.
He  pull it back like that.
Well,  and he had one of these short shot guns about short.
Well,  these mans was out looking for 'em, so he went into town.
They say,  Hey, catcher that old whore  head.
So he say,  Look at 'em.
Let me- Watch me go over there and roughen 'em up.
Went over there.
Ain't you too- a little too young  to be drinking beer, son?
He say,  Get your yellow stinking hands off of me.
So then he say,  Well you wanna get rough, huh?
Well I show you how to get rough.
So the Sheriff walked in and say,  Stop this racket right now.
Well he started it.
So he walked through there,  and they beat him up pretty bad.
They had hit him  so he went-  and then when they-  this lady found him, and she put him in a house.
So,  and he was for loading his gun.
It was this fast man had on black clothes.
He load his gun.
He jumped up like this, you know.
He- he- Them- They- He knowed him.
You know, like you take your gun apart,  held it one piece to here and one piece the- the um, thing you wind,  have it there.
And the um,  the part laying there.
So he put it together,  and put that part there,  so  he know the man was coming up the steps.
He gonna hear.
The man try to be  tricky so  he- you know, like it's a  big  piece of- long pice of wood?
He grabbed on there and jumped on- and kind of like he hung hisself.
The man,  you know,  man say,  Jump back.
Boom!
Kick the door open.
And he ain't see him.
He jumped on him.
Boom!
He f-  fell down.
And then say,        and got on his horse and rode out.
And t-  went into town, had him some beer.
So  when this um-  then,  with some more all them mens,  he came into town and say,  you killed my brother.
So he came in there.
He had about five mens with him.
He say,    tsk  ready when you ready.
They shot him.
The bullets bounceded off.
So  and when he had the shotgun, you know- But they gonna get her- They got him.
You know?
Like it be a lean pursuit    under the ground which you walk on.
Well it was a man under there, and it was another man on the roof.
And a man up there.
He had a whole lot of mens  surrounding him.
He ain't know it though.
Well,  he walked on wood,  and the man was just looking at him.
He say,  say-  He jump back,  and put the gun on there,  Boom!
The other man say   from under there.
So the next man,  he say,  .
Telling like he was a man  Frank!
He got me!
He say,  Where?
Boom!
Got him!
Then someone say,  -  hey Miss .
What?
Where are you?
I'm on the roof!
Okay!
I think he got the gold.
You know how it be some louder woods and things?
He went out there.
He say,  He let all they horses go.
Then he got behind one of the horses,  and say,  Hey you!
Got three of 'em off the roofs  and they say-  He jumped over- You got my brother!
Get down you fool!
Got him in the head.
So  the Chinese-  the um, Mexico,  he say,  You!
Like this,  then- then he rode out the town.
Then he say-  Every time a man get in-  Every time they went to hang the man,  he  shoot him down,  get him on the horse and bring him back in, get some more money.
Shoot him down and bring them, give them some more money.
So  and then he got away from stranger,  Fistful of Dollar  so  he went home to his um, wife.
The Mexican man went home to his wife.
And then,  they went  to find him again, so  we went- he left his wife  and went out  to this um, thing  where they got all kinds of guns.
He opened the door.
You know the- the doors come- the  when he push 'em open.
And they had a target what you shoot at.
Well he went out there and say, give me the gun.
He say,  I'm'a pay you for 'em.
He say, I just wanna see one.
So    He shot at  um,  the um Mexico shoot so fast, she said,  You keep the guns.
You know,  don't pay me.
Bye bye.
He rode on.
He said,   I wasn't gonna pay you anyway.
Put the gun up there and had a sack of gold.
I should have t-  I think I do that.
Then some rode out of town,  he say,  please senor.
Don't take all my money.
I need it.
So he ranned out on him.
And cause it was some mans coming through the back door,  and he went out the front door.
And pretend like he- he put his shirt  and  put a  piece of stick down there,  put the hat over it,  and pretend like he was satting in the  chair.
He was out the door while they looking- was shooting at the chair and he- he-  he- there was something  that he put there telling it was him.
So he ran on out of there.
And then he got home.
He had a knife up there,  you know, go around like that.
So he went in-  he was started um, kissing his wife-  and then you hear the mans coming.
He jumped up there,  behind the door,  and after about five minutes  choking his wife,      Where is he?
Where is he?
He say-  he got mad and then he just started    hit the man.
The other man say,    He say,      Hit him in his  forehead.
All the bullets runned out.
And they started  turning they head.
So this old man-  It was almost going off- This old man had a gun right here.
Was a cook,  so  they had that  thing  contacted  go around like that, and then it's uh-    And he say,  N- Fistful of Dollars was there,  and a um-  man with the moustache was there.
H- Uh, no,  n- um- Chinese-  the um, Mexican was right there.
And them old man with the um-  the m-  contact in his eye,  they say,        They say,          He say,  and shot the other man.
He fell.
They got him in um- he wrapped this in um-  and say,  Go home.
And then he say,  Adios.
They say, where you going?
I'm going with you.
Well,  adios.
Then he went- Fisful of Dollars went that way-  and  then uh, man, he kept shooting down,  saving Fistful of Dollars.
He went that way, and they went that way.
Adios!
you know.
He went back home.
He went-  and he went to another town.
He went off.
He say,                         Went off.
We studying  um, science  and R- Yeah.
Huh?
B- uh- Yeah.
Subtracting  from one  to two.
Mm-hm.
Well some of um,  they go out and play.
Some of 'em  go around  and g- um,  like steal things, something like that.
Like this um,  boy  um, set the -  uh- the  on fire.
And they try to put on-  put it on my brother.
And we wasn't around there.
We had went to see a parade yesterday and just got back.
And some of 'em um,  like to bring out they games outside like c-  Twister  and start a-playing.
Some of 'em play  j- j- rope,  go swimming,  go to camp,  things like that.
Play.
Uh, go on little hike and stuff like that.
Build things.
Hm?
Did I ever have one?
Yes.
The children.
See um, this boy  name um, RD-NAME-1-  So the teacher,  he  c-  he came in  late.
So he had went somewhere too,  with his mother uptown to buy some shoes.
And she got  angry.
He say,  I went uptown  with my mother.
She took me uptown to buy some shoes.
She say, put your name on that board.
He say, I ain't late.
I ain't putting my name out there.
He wasn't late.
So she say,  put your name on that board,  and she opened the desk , went out there and took the ruler.
Put your name on it.
Hit the boy with the ruler-  you- you- keep your hands off of me!
Then,  she s-  told him- kept hitting him in his face  with her fist.
Say, I'm'a tell my mother.
So she say, I'm'a take you down there, and you know what you're mother gonna do.
She gonna beat you in the class.
She gonna beat you right in front of the class with a switch,  and you know it.
Now straight up that desk  and get straight.
And shut up.
So he say,  better keep your little black hands off of me, you old white-  And like something like that-  So,  then he say-  then she say, I'm gonna take you to the principal right now,  He's like, keep your hands off of me!
He took the book.
And um,  then this g-  then she got him quiet.
She took him down to principal.
So the next day,  this boy name  RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-3-  so  kept hitting on  RD-NAME-3.
Cause RD-NAME-3um, wrote in her book-  she-  y- um, sh-  sh-  she um,  m- wrote in a book,  a little scratch in the book.
And s- s- um, the book was already um, wrote in.
So  she made RD-NAME-3 write it all over-  erase all of it- everything was in the book.
What she didn't put in.
So she's like, I ain't really writing nothing in there.
So she hit the teacher in the eye  and her contact lense it came out.
But some of 'em make her do that.
Mm-hm.
Coming in late,  going uptown with my mother.
But one time, she tore my shirt.
When I first went to school- first went-  when school started again-  first day-  well,  my n- I had my new shirt.
She tore it.
No, see,   um, the boy kept hitting me in the back.
And I telled him I'm gonna-  and I went and tell the teacher and she say, be quiet.
Wouldn't let me-  And I'm gonna tell her anyway.
So when she come grabbing me on my shirt,   slamming me through the door, I told her, hey, keep your hands off of me  cause I know what I'm talking about.
And this boy name RD-NAME-3,  he was tryna be tricky,  pretend like he don't do nothing all the time.
When we have a substitute, he run around in the room and  when the teacher come by,  he say, I don't do nothing.
And then she just send him down to the principal,  let him take notes and stuff.
Y-  Yeah.
Her name was Miss RD-NAME-1.
See um,  one thing,  she didn't even let us-  one thing my other teacher name- who tore my shirt?
Well she didn't let us go outside at all.
Only-  teach-  only time we went outside when we had a substitute.
Yeah, well, I was in the  third grade.
So, um,  it was RD-NAME-2,  and um,  RD-NAME-3,  the boy who let she do her- Well, anyway, when I was in the um-  she ain't let nobody do n- no drawing but me.
So when um-  so she let us go outside.
If it be raining, she let us play games in there.
And um,  and uh,  every-  we have parties,  um, Halloweens,  Christmas and stuff.
Sh-  That was- Her name was Miss RD-NAME-1,  and her uh, daughter, was going to the  uh, that school.
That's on-  best teacher I had.
Oh yeah!
Um, a boy was gonna do that the last day of school.
Huh?
They told on him.
And um,  he brought  um-  See,  um, we was having art you know, so the boy b- brought a knife to school  for the teacher.
So he didn't get to use it,  and they throwed it out the window.
And um,  and then,  and he was-  and then when he-  he brought-  he- we- we went to store went day.
You know,  this apartment but it had a store in it.
Like um,  trophies and um, stuff like that.
A lot of um,  things like that.
And knife,  uh, one of these- these little soft i-,  long  dagger things.
Well,  he- we saw him s-  um, took that  and put it-  put it down here.
He took it and put it down there,  and took a whistle.
So he took that home.
So the next day,  I told the teacher-  people say,  RD-NAME-1 took a knife out of the um, thingy.
And she ain't believe it.
So  she say, did you boy?
Did- I didn't take nothing out of there.
And I say-  he say-  it was uh,  about  twelve inches long.
And she say,  come on, I'm going down-  yeah, I know, you tell a lies.
He always telling.
We go and see your mother.
We gonna see your princip- I'm'a call your mother,  and she gonna come up here and beat you in front of the class.
How you like that?
Say, she ain't gonna do nothing.
She gonna come up here and beat you.
Huh?
Yeah.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-3.
Peoples like that.
Like uh, Mexico and stuff?
Yeah, RD-NAME-2 do.
But I don't know about the rest.
And RD-NAME-3 do too.
And RD-NAME-4 do.
And I do.
Um, language.
Oui-  oui Madame.
Mi-  Oui Madame .
Ou-  Oui madame.
Mi bien, merci Madame.
Et vous?
Um,  good morning.
French.
Uh-huh.
Um- RD-NAME-3, he light skin.
RD-NAME-2 No.
What would he have to do?
Nothing.
Huh?
First,  I go and talk to him  and ask him what his name,  like I did this boy  name RD-NAME-2.
I went to talk to him,  and he wanted to be- be with us.
So  I talked to him.
He was with us.
I wanted to be a football player.
The Redskins.
Be a good b- good quarterback.
Yes.