Yes.
Yes.
Hide and go seek, We um, used to play kickball,  baseball,  football,  eat the peg.
Let me see now um Yes, that's a- that's a game you play with uh, sharp objects such as a screwdriver or a knife,  and uh you would uh,  it was a sort of around the world game you know you start at one point,  s- sticking the screwdriver into the ground,  if you fail to stick the screw- screwdriver into the ground,  then it was the other person's turn,  and he would start  from his uh,  and just throwing it into the ground,  just  throwing it on the shoulder,  knee  foot  head  and chin,  and what have you.
The first one who completed the game  well,  the other one would eat the peg.
Other words they would uh  stick the screwdriver  as far down in the ground as they could-  as it would go  and um,  he would try to get it out with his teeth.
So in that way he would eat the peg.
Hide and seek you would uh,  select a candidate  to uh,  select a candidate  to  cover himself  by uh well placing his  forearms over his eyes  and uh,  against the lamp post, up against the lamp post  and all the others would  well,  run and hide.
It was a hot potato thing, you know.
Well you know you  you put your all-  all-  ea- no everyone in the games would  put their hands together  you know, one on top of the other,  and they would just sing,  hot potato hot potato,  I forget the lyrics behind it but you know,  it was this sort of thing.
and the last one out  would be it.
And it,  he would be the candidate,  for  you know,  covering his face, Well uh, Yeah, it was a lyric  they- they went,  hot potato, hot potato,  I just can't get the rest of it anyway,  it would go all the way around, and wherever it stopped, he was eliminated.
all the way around each candidate til  they got to the last one, the last one was it automatically it.
Well,  you tried to find them.
Well when he finds you, right, when he finds one of 'em,  everyone is hiding,  when he finds one,  then he would try to make it back  to the base, which would be the lamp post, a tree, or  what have you,  before the-  the other guy  touches the thing, he would try to touch the lamp post or the base  before the other  uh kid did.
and which one of us  you know,  touch first,  if- if um- if the other guy  would touch first  then he would be uh,  well  say free.
But if  the person who was it touched it  first  then  the other person  was a candidate for being it.
Uh, kickball you would select a team  we had ver- uh, very large teams you know,  sometimes as much as uh  nine, ten, eleven guys on the team, you know.
Most of the time- I was a pretty big kid,  you know, and uh,  well most kids my age were rather small, you know and I used to uh  well,  take a few guys against maybe  well  twice  the number of my team,  and we would play.
simply because they would say I was a little larger you know, a little stronger.
Well,  the opposite team would get the field,  and we would do this by uh,  flipping a coin most times, you know  or  selecting a candidate from each side to race another race the other, whoever would win, you know  they would  say who was- who would be on the field and who would be up  at uh  you know, to kick first.
Anyway,  the opposing team would be in the field,  while the other team would be  um,  ready to kick, you know.
And you form a- a- semi-formal line  you know,  one right behind the other  okay,  we would have something like a pitcher,  someone at first base,  no no no wait a minute, a pitcher,  and everyone else  was in the outfield to catch the ball.
If the pitcher-  you know if  the pitcher  pitched the ball,  you had three chances to kick it.
Okay you have three fouls,  and you're out.
That's the way we played it we made up our own rules you know,  and if we  pitch the ball and it was kicked-  and it was kicked by the high or pop ball,  a fly pop, and someone caught it then you were out  and if the other person had changed bases  if he-  by any chance he was on a base  if he didn't get back to the same base,  then he would be out because we would  just throw the ball at him and if it touched him he would be out.
But if it didn't he was safe, as long as he got away from the ball.
It was something like dodgeball.
Right.
I used to when I was a kid I don't have too much time to watch TV anymore.
Well, now  let's see,  I really couldn't say right now but at the time I could tell you.
At that time I would- I would watch  uh, such things as cartoons and uh,  I hated news- news broadcasts at that time, at that time, I just hated them.
and you know, and commercials,  that were all the  humorless- humorless ones.
You know the very fun- funny ones?
I loved those.
You know like, Three Stooges  sort of thing or Phyllis Diller you know.
Well, I used to watch well,  Hawaiian Eye and Yeah.
No I haven't seen that one anymore.
uh, Sky King you know, Humpty Dumpty and uh Buster Brown Yeah oldies see I was young then.
Yeah.
TV program.
Let's see.
I don't pay too much attention to them anymore.
Movies?
Well,  the last movie I went to was uh, Sidney Poitier's uh  what was it,  uh,  it wasn't Guess Who's Coming to Dinner  it was uh,  To Sir With Love so then Sure it was about uh,  a black teacher  in France  teaching uh,  well  predominately  white kids or  French kids you know light complexion.
and uh  well,  they gave him a rough time, you know.
And he started off as being a nice guy.
Even the staff-  the staff members gave him a rough time, you know.
And he tried to get along with his uh,  class you know cause he had an uh- roughly, uh-  rough necks  you know, even the girls.
But  who managed to uh  get through to 'em, you know stop 'em from jiving around, playing in class  to learning, you know, something.
And then he conducted some  projects  you know and strategy and he used it and I think he did pretty well.
At the end uh,  one of his students the one who gave him a very rough time I think they had a boxing match  he was a rough guy you know he was a white kid  he was big for his age like I said you know, I said I was and like  the rest of th- of the class looked up to him as being you know  rough guy yeah  or a leader.
And uh, he would give him such a rough time til one day they almost got into a uh,  pushing match  and so uh,  think the next period he had to teach 'em gym, he had to take 'em to gym you know and  teach 'em some gymnastics,  and while he was in gym uh,  they were boxing everyone wanted to box.
and he had to teach 'em how to box well these guys already knew how to box, most of 'em better than he.
Anyway the biggest one  said well why won't you box me, you know.
And everyone you know,  helped it you know, helped the situation by you know, yeah, come on let's see you all box.
and they box and uh, the guy gave him a rough time at first, a very rough time.
as a matter of fact he was almost at the point where-  where I thought he was gonna lose you know until he  managed to slip a lucky one in  hitting the kid in the stomach  knocking his breath out, you know.
He was  gagging and gasping for air for about a hour, even when he went back to class.
And so then after that  after he got through to him  and this- this girl, the leader of the girls  and everything I think  kind of cooled down and the kids really learned, you know.
And he was commended by the faculty by some members,  some were still uh, prejudice you know,  toward him.
But I think he did a pretty good job,  and the picture was very nice.
It was.
As a matter of fact I recommend it.
Yes, uh it was- it was up on uh,  New Hampshire  forget the theater but it- it's in uh  it's in Maryland.
What's the part in Maryland, grandma?
Langley Park.
Sure I used to love dogs,  had to have me a dog.
I think every- every one of my dogs  the one I called my own  got killed  one way or- or another, you know.
Well I used to run around the block and they used to chase me I used to love when they'd chase me you know especially when- while they were small you know.
And uh,  something always led them astray and they would run out in the street and get smashed.
Cocker spaniel, you know,  and some- most mixed breeds but I had a few  cocker spaniels.
Some caught very bad cold you know cause I couldn't bring 'em in the house.
As a matter of fact I think one of my dogs froze froze to death.
Sure, yeah, I used to play with 'em all the time stick my hand on down in the mouth.
You know their little teeth?
Sharp as spikes you know and sort of tickle instead of hurt, you know.
but as they get a little older you know it begins to  hurt you know as the teeth get stronger and you know, harder.
And uh I used to stick my hand all though that- up in the- you know and then  take a string and  tease him with it until he grab the string and then you know make him growl you know until I made him mean and I had to have a mean dog, everyone else had one.
So uh  I used to get him to a point you know I used to like him you know I  if I shook or wore pants or something they would think I wanted to play with 'em you know they see my pants dangling and away they go biting at my pants you know  and my socks.
Yeah.
Well I was on the general track.
We had a- we have a- we had a track  the you know track system in schools  which they don't have now   now.
Well I was on a general track I took English,  general English you know,  mathematics,  business and  typing, all business courses  everything relating to business,  I had you know.
I took those courses.
I was in grammar through- from grammar through high.
Yeah.
It-  it's anything relating to uh  business you know.
Yeah.
When you- when you say grammar school I'm sure you mean uh junior high?
Elementary and junior high well I think that  elementary's- my elementary education was uh  somewhat of a stepping stone, you know but it- it was still the things they gave us w- you know they were related to business business concepts, you know.
When you say grammar school a- again I ask you elementary.
Well,  on the way home we had a ball  you know just before we departed from one another.
used to play tag and uh  yeah tag    you know you had to tag the person and say I'll see you tomorrow and he didn't want you to tag him he wanted to tag you back and then run you know get away.
And  came home together, change clothes and the first one out-  first one out would go  find another guy to play with you know  for his play mate.
And we used to build skate trucks and uh  anything that would move you know  or we would  build anything  and the kids don't do it anymore.
Dull you know.
Used to always have something going  Cowboys and Indians and anything you know  we'd make our own horses.
with wooden sticks you know and put saddles on 'em and  put  things like  kids have on their bicycles draping things you know, make our own horses.
Make cardboard faces  it was unique but it was good.
Say a lot better I- I don't understand when kids just don't do it these days you know.
I think kids uh  these days uh  they look for things  destructive instead of you know constructing things you know they  try to  tear up everything you know.
If you buy a kid a toy  he'll play with it  he'll play with it  but if another kids have a- has a toy of the same kind  he'll break his,  and wanna play with the other kid's toy.
Yeah ki- k- kids are funny that way.
Teenagers in high school?
Well when I was a teenager in high school I used to come home and do my homework afterwards I used to jump over to the playground where they had recreation recreational facilities such as checkers  boxing,  boxing uh,  football,  and we had tournaments you know like in the Summer time  the uh- recreational fac- uh department would buy watermelons and uh you know luncheons and everything  and we- we would- we would have to- uh we would have to  you know  compete with each other  you know  such as racing and  we had racing squads everyone who wanted to race- wanted to run, we had to run all the way around the playground  and uh  they would pick 'em by one two three and four  first winner second winner third winner fourth winner and a fifth.
You know.
They would get a slice of watermelon,  the biggest slice you know.
Everybody wanted to get into this you know  everybody would b- be running around the block and  it was a lot of shoving you know, pulling and  Tripping and whatnot .
Yeah, yeah anything goes.
And uh  let me see now,  work,  sixteen  you know til about the age of sixteen  From fourteen- fourteen to eighteen?
Well I- I would say yeah work  work, try to find work  cutting grass anything to make some money.
Just you know, make some money you can go to the swimming pool well the other times you had to pay to get in you know the movies  and movies  yes.
Mm-hm.
Screamed at the kids?
Yeah yeah yeah.
As a matter of fact in all I think  from the third grade  no not the third grade,  but the fourth grade  to sixth grade  I had teachers who screamed a lot,  but after then uh  I don't know.
Either you learn- either you wanna learn or you just didn't stay in class, you know.
They would just eliminate you.
Put you in SAC which is social adjustment class.
I never was in SAC.
We used to play little  silly games you know, everybody was informed  you know  except the teacher,  and we- you know she used to be writing things on the board you know  such as arithmetic and uh English and  some wise guy might throw a spit ball and hit her in the head you know something like that.
or put a banana peel or  needles in her chair you know thumbtacks?
I remember this guy one time he put uh  was it a pin?
Or it was a tack,  he put a tack- he taped it to her chair  you know  and when you- that kind of tape in back then- in tho- at that time was uh sort of yellow  you know it just wasn't like the tape- it's not like the tape  that we have now,  transparent  other kinds it was real dark,  and he put tape over it  and she didn't see it.
you know, cause they had all- I think it was uh  brown chairs then.
And when she sat down yeah I think she almost lost it.
I think she did lose her head for a few minutes until she caught herself and I think she  and she excuse- sku- she excused the whole class that day  she was, you know  asked us all to go home cause when she sat down on it and she made such a loud noise and screamed  everyone looked first  and then when she took it out then everyone began to laugh cause everyone was informed before she even got in the class, you know.
And she just couldn't take it and th-  first she wanted to know  who did it.
It was quiet then.
nobody knew,  you know  it's a lot of smiling faces but nobody knew.
And I-  I think this set her off.
What do you mean  Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah I was a trouble maker back then.
As a matter of fact I think I was uh  I w- I think I was brought up at a few PTA meetings  you know.
Yeah.
I was uh well Fair?
Yeah, as a matter of fact if I were-  if I were you know at the time  if she would have put me in her place  you know  I think I would have beat the living daylights out of myself.
you know cause we did some rotten things back then.
I mean I was rotten too you know just a mean kid.
Anything mean I thought of it, and would introduce it to the rest of the class you know to get volunteers to help  or you know decide with me  so I could go ahead and do it you know.
And most of us guys I think it was about three or four you know of us  we used to sit back and  at that time at that stage  we were uh w- what they call uh  uh the bad guys you know we were the bad guys and we used to invent everything.
We kept the class  in laughter jolly mood you know and everything was nice  and I liked that.
But after I- I don't know after I graduated from grade school  to McFarland  things changed cause we had a assistant principal name uh  RD-NAME-1, right?
RD-NAME-3 and uh  he just didn't go for this kind of thing you know.
RD-NAME-3 had uh a paddle which was uh yea long  big holes in it.
and I think it was old but it would  Ugh.
Yeah he used it on me once, once.
Just  once.
That's all he- that's all I needed was one time.
And I'll never forget that, I saw him down  on Roosevelt the other week.
He's older now but I remember you know  Sure.
RD-NAME-4 in high school,  RD-NAME-2 in grade school,  I have to think about junior high school.
Yes.
RD-NAME-3 she was kind she- she had  brilliant  teaching techniques you know the way she taught As a matter of fact when I was in uh  what was it, first grade Ma?
RD-NAME-2?
I- No RD-NAME-2 was uh,  well maybe the second grade.
I know who I had for third grade, RD-NAME-2  for my third grade.
Yeah I know that's when I was going through that change.
But anyway it was RD-NAME-2 and she had brilliant teaching techniques and she would-  I don't know she had the whole class  wanting to do everything that she asked you know.
Just something about her.
And she was- I don't know she was a  well I think- the way I think about now she was a  real good looking chick you know she was  real nice looking you know  and that helped.
Yeah I wa- we weren't nothing but kids you know we just you know, yeah but she was nice looking  well she's old now so but she was a nice looking chick you know and  just anything she said and- an- you know  we would go along with it.
Everyone else went along with it  and we went along with everything she said  you know.
But she was kind.
If you didn't have lunch money  she'd buy you lunch.
She'd take you to lunch, right.
RD-NAME-4 uh she was oh she was nice too she was brilliant she wasn't as pretty, you know.
She was kind, it was the- you know, the sort of thing that you-  you look for in a- in a-  in a teacher you know.
She's a- she was a ideal teacher, especially in high school you know  during those rough years.
And I don't know it was the way she taught.
The way she taught,  a person wanted to learn, you know.
A lot of these teachers you know they just teach and say well if you learn it, you learn it, if you don't, you don't  but she was more concerned with you individually and- and- and learning you know.
And you learn  from her  everyone in that class I don't think anyone pulled any F's  a few pulled C's  I think I pulled B, B, B, B in  you know  history history  yeah and government and you know these sort of things economics.
She's a counselor now and the- and uh my graduating class recommended her as  counselor  or for counselor and she's now a counselor.
Senior counselor.
She's good.
One   that I just couldn't stand?
RD-NAME-4 in  eighth grade I couldn't stand him,  no one could stand that man.
We were informed by the kids who had him the year- the previous year you know saying,  you don't want that guy you know.
He was just mean.
He was downright mean you know.
And we would do his homework  and uh  well we gave him a lot of trouble I go- I have to admit you know we gave him a lot of trouble well he was mean and he deserved it  even now I'll say he deserved it.
Even now I'll say he deserved it you know  because  he would put the- the lesson on the board and he would go through it you know we would all go through it, then he would stop  and if someone you know would  you know daze  be in a daze or b- be day dreaming  you knows you know, as some kids do they have problems at home and everything which I understand now I didn't then you know I thought they was doing this- doing it for fun you know  wanted some attention.
He would get up  and ask the person to come up in front of the class he would  push 'em and shove 'em, do anything you know.
pinch  ooh he used to  swell people's arms up  you know with those red marks  and his- his fingernails were real long  and he would just  pinch you.
And every time you said, ow  he'd pinch you that much harder and- and- and twice as many times as he started to pinch you.
Alright.
He   excuse me  he would never  approach the bigger boys.
Yeah I think that's wh- he would never approach 'em  they could do anything.
And he would take like some big boy would  you know when I say big boy it was some big fellas you know almost in manhood.
It was at- at that time you know at the education level of uh you know negroes were poor you know  it was just  on a  poor capacity that's what it was.
And uh  he wouldn't say anything to them he would- he would  they do something  he get one of us for it you know.
The smallest guy in the class he ask him  why did you do that, knowing he didn't do it you know,  come up here.
and pinch him and everything and the bigger guys would laugh you know  he would make the other guy cry, the smaller guy cry  he was happy.
Yeah.
And the girls resented this thing you know.
That's right that's right.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah I think I had about three or four gangs yeah I was rough you know like I said I was a rough kid.
I don't know what changed me you know  cause a l- a lot of the kids I used to hang with  still hanging on the corners you know.
doing nothing, don't wanna work nothing.
Me.
Yeah.
No I wasn't that big then and th- that's- you know during junior high school years um  fellas caught up with me  some- most passed me.
Well I w- just wouldn't let anyone  I think I had a- it was a occasion  when I was in Boy Scouts I was coming from a Boy Scout meeting and a larger boy  used to take my money.
He knew  No this w- this is the question he asked he said, hi how you doing, I said, hi how you doing, keep walking  he'll follow me say, where do you live?
And I thought he was a friend you know I thought he was a friendly type guy you know so I told him where I lived  and he knew where I lived and it was fa- you know it w- it was a long ways  away from where he was and where we were then.
Then he would punch on me and take my money you know.
I don't know I resented this.
I re- I resented that and um  I wouldn't let anyone take anything from me it was-  there were occasions in school where  guys used to try to take your lunch money or  fractions of your lunch money  you know  and I would just  put everything else aside and just go ahead and fight 'em  you know.
But nine times out of ten I won.
Some big guys, you know.
The ones I didn't beat they d-  you know  they wouldn't fight me no more we were friends  and I just got around.
I started getting you know being looked up to and uh  Well I- I liked it at the time superiority I guess.
Yeah yeah I liked it you know  RD-NAME-4  RD-NAME-4  RD-NAME-3, RD-NAME-4  his brother  RD-NAME-3  oh  I could name a million of 'em you know.
Yeah uh well I think I was  yeah mostly  either my age or older.
Believe me I- I wasn't the oldest  But I uh I used to tell them that you know.
but they didn't know  cause uh Yeah that's right it helps you  and I used to always be swinging I used to give uh  you know we had these clubs you know  gangs we used to go  uptown and fight  I don't know why  you know just one of those things you know.
You wanted to fight it was a time when you had to go to a party and crash it.
You had to go to a party every week and crash it.
If you didn't,  she didn't know about it  if you didn't then you weren't  well in the in-crowd you know.
We used to go all uptown but I knew I- I had to be home at a certain time  so I would  use a phony excuse every time to get away from 'em you know  but they would go for it  cause I used to always do it in such a  smooth way and they used to call me cool all the time you know and they some of 'em- most of 'em still do you know.
But I was cool with my stuff.
I say man I say listen I say I gotta leave I say you know and they ain't gotta go with me I say I'm going by myself I gotta  go somewhere  you know  they say okay uh  yeah okay I'll see you  see you some other time I say okay I get out and I walk all cool you know I walk cool as I can and  as long as they didn't see me you know and then when I got to a point  you know where they didn't-  where they didn't see me  I'd make it home.
I don't care where I was  I'd make it home.
Cause I knew at a certain time that door would lock and no one would let you in, you know.
and if- even if someone let you in  if they let you in too late  then you w- you would wish  that you wouldn't have  come here you know.
So uh yeah, I had my share  I had my share of beatings, whippings whatever you wanna call 'em.
I had my share of 'em cause I was a  drastic kid I used to always be into something.
even at school.
Oh that was lovely w- w- we would have to uh initiate this kid you know  he would have to become one of us or he's  excluded from the rest of us you know.
He was all  you have to pay  protection fees and  what have you you know.
Well he could get in and we would-  would  punch him in the chest or    First we would use all this propaganda to get him to wanna join you know tell him what we did you know  you know  give him the low down you know we would give parties you know  certain times you know we may  have to fight these guys  you know  and like he might be called you know any time we come around we give you the signal you know you have to go.
You know.
If you don't then we're gonna get you.
And they th- you know we got over to 'em and uh we would- I would initiate because I was  If I wasn't president  which I was  in most of 'em I was  up there you know  if I wasn't vice president  then I was a war counselor you know something like that.
Uh  we all followed a pattern you know.
Junior Twilights  Dragons um,  Baby Nuggets  Baby Lions Did I said Roman Nuggets didn't I?
No I said Junior Twilight.
Roman Nuggets, I w- I went to live with my father for a year or so  and it was then The Number Two Boys Club we used to box you had to be rough down there to get-  to get-  you know  to get over  you had to be rough you know.
Where the O- was it the O Street no it K Street Market wasn't it Ma?
K Street Market  you know where that used to be?
On K Street  it was the big market where the museum is now  the Wax Museum.
big K Street Market in it  and on Friday when kids were out of school they were down there  We was stealing apples,  chicken and  what have you, you know.
Sometimes we'd  steal apples and  they had wine and stuff up there w- I would never take any of it.
I was living down there then Ma.
I was living with Daddy then.
Yeah.
Well there- there was a school down there as I recall it was Walker Thomas  and that was the boundary  for us and we could go from uh  from Ninth  to Walker Thomas which is around First  up to um  what was it  it was a large boundary do you know what Number Two Boys Club is?
And uh  well different members we used to wear jackets  you know we had to pay dues.
Yeah  really organized I mean these guys were fabulous you know they wanted to do this thing and we did it right.
And after school or certain days you know we would hear about  these guys coming up to the playground  you know  let's see who was it it was the Mau-Maus,  uh  Tag Alongs,  uh  few other gangs uh  forget.
Anyway they had a baby Mau Mau uh  junior Mau Mau and a senior Mau Mau  well at that time we- yeah we were the babies you know.
And the bigger guys would always put us up you know tell us when you know  go on over to the playground  and they'd give us stuff to go over there with.
I think one guy got uh hurt real bad over there and that's when it was about time for me to move out the area  you know.
We used to throw bricks, bottles, you know first you used to meet,  and we used to get some smart talk you know, exchange it  from one gang to the other and if  who- whoever was outnumbered  which on occasions you know  we always outnumbered  most gangs you know.
Well the one who was outnumbered  would  retreat  you know we'll fight  but retreat you know  cause they knew they were terribly outnumbered you know they-  w- wasn't much they could do you know but  re-retreat.
In the process of retreating we would throw bottles, bricks, anything if we catch a couple of 'em you know we  beat 'em you know  just  beat 'em.
I used to feel sorry for them guys sometime you know even though I was the leader you know I couldn't say anything.
I w- sometime I wouldn't even punch on 'em you know  I would give my smart  sermon you know my lecture you know  turn around look and  hit one  you know  you would- you wouldn't give any warning.
you w- you hit me first I'm'a hit you first you know I wouldn't say you hit me first  as a matter of fact we didn't say too much I just  exchanged some words turn around look and see if everybody was ready  swing.
And that started it.
After that started then you know I could just bag back  you know and watch it.
Well it was uh uh  it was something like uh let's see  well what do you- what do y'all wanna do man?
You know  guy say, what do you wanna do?
I turn around look at everybody you know  and then as I'm swinging I say, this is what I wanna do, and by that time I  hit him you know.
Everybody start fighting.
Mostly  mostly.
Sure sure, Number Two had a few Caucasians in it, beca- because they have Caucasian families down there- everybody down there I don't- regardless at that time  I don't know w- it w- wasn't- it w- it was very few times when uh  one kid would say to another kid you know,  he's white man  you know we wanna eliminate him you know  like we don't even want him around here you know  something like this  wasn't like that.
Cause he was poor  and I was poor  you know  he had fun and we had fun, he was one of us you know he was on the our side you know.
If he wanted to be initiated he had to go through the same process and with maybe a little teeny bit more  with some of the same process you know.
It was the same ten licks in the chest  you know if you had to stand there by yourself  you had to want to do this thing you know.
Some guys just had to carry uh  who was it  I forget the guy's name we used to have to carry him around after school on your back you know  every- anywhere you wanna go like a- a free taxi cab service you know.
Say  take me home, you just grab his books  and he- he grab your books and  he jumps on your back and you take him home.
If you didn't make it if you wanted to quit,  it was alright you know  you were just eliminated.
but most guys went through it  It's a good thing to wear those  beautiful jackets in school you know and the girls just  love that stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah that's your buddy.
That's your buddy that's your partner.
Yeah that's your walkman  that's a old term now, now it's your boy  yeah.
So at a time it was my walkman now it's you know  have you see- well have you seen my walkman?
Same term  term has changed to  where's my boy  you know  my boy so and so  my boy Edward or Jerry or my man so and so, my man so and so you know  slang just  changes.
No not-  I mess with girls most of the time you know uh  Well  mm- I think most of us are you know at-  to a certain point in our lives man where we just say well  I'm not getting anywhere by standing on this corner  punching people in the nose you know getting punched  you know  there's gonna be some times when uh I'm- I'm getting older you know there's gonna be some times when I'm gonna wanna  have somebody I can really talk to and then t- and it- you know and you reach a certain point you just can't talk to another fella like you can a girl you know.
You can't get the- the assurance that uh  he really wants to listen you know or he's really involved or concerned.
Well with a girl I think you can tell.
Girls.
Yes I-  I- I dig math you know yeah I dig math uh  I like math as complicated  as it is  it's  interesting to me you know  what you can do with numbers  and words mind you cause I have to write- write a theme  a essay  tonight.
Oh great.
This is a um  induction  style essay.
Yes I'm at RD-SCHOOL-7 part-time and I'm working for the RD-WORK-7.
Yeah.
Well I work with the machines such as duplicating machines uh  Xerox 2400  Multilith  uh  mimeograph machines and then we have a offset printing press  a new one just came in and he- and the representative is in the process of uh  showing us how to  operate 'em.
Well my title they gave me a off title which is a mail clerk  and I don't I mean I don't touch mail.
Yeah and- an- an- and deliveries also plus loading and un- no not loading but unloading trucks  yeah loading and unloading you know its just  I do all different types of menial task.
Well I hope to major in uh  computer science you know but I don't wanna start off as an operator  key punch operator or um  what's his name the operator    let me see operator  that's your first step is operator you know key punch operator  second step is uh  well anyway I forget I'll get back to it I'll remember it.
And then  the high step is uh  well one of the high steps is uh systems  a- analyst  you know  you analyze a thing you know you go into Safeways and  Safeway may call you in  to- to analyze it's  products you know  you put everything in a  different category you know you draw your little plans you know and then you give it to the  programmer  you know  and the programmer a- arranges his thing then he gives it to the- he feeds it to the key punch operator.
So it's a step by step process.
I don't wanna start at the ground floor and work my way up.
Takes too long.
I'd rather try for the top and  possibly if I can get to the top in a year you know when I get out I start  at that level  move myself up to the top  it wouldn't take as long.
Well if I uh major in it- in it you know  if by any chance I receive a degree  then I would be qualified  for a systems analyst.
Yeah.
Yeah they had to turn down quite a few  but  no no no wait a minute let me say this  no did you read the article in the Post?
Did you see the pictures?
My picture  was included among the other two.
Mm-hm.
And this was a  publicity stunt  you know because Congress was considering uh  giving the RD-WORK-7 adequate funds to accommodate  at least five thousand of the applicants.