RD-NAME-5.
Well  uh most of my time was spent  playing with my model cars  and  m-  all of my friends had model cars and so it was  sort of a  joint action,  we'd all get together in someone's basement or someone's backyard  and we'd either race 'em or  or  build 'em or tear them apart  or pretend as though  um  we were-  we were grown and this is how we'd live  in  our make believe houses with our  toy cars.
Oh we  did this too we played  a lot of tag, we played a lot of touch football  in a  back alley and um  when we could not find a football we'd play baseball,  or Indian ball or kick ball and um  most of- most of our playing was done in the alley behind our houses.
Well Indian ball  was um  a game where  there was one person at bat  and  he would hit the ball  out  into the field  of others there m-  maybe six or seven  standing out  and um  they-  if you caught the ball  on a pop fly  then it was your turn to be at bat.
other than that if it was a ground ball  or  it bounced off a wall or fence or something  you'd pick it up  and then  the p-  the  batter would lay the bat down on the ground  and you'd roll the ball at the bat  and  he had to-  if the ball hit the bat and jumped up,  he had to catch the ball  before it-  it landed on the ground.
If he missed the ball it was your turn at bat.
Well  uh it was just a basic game of touch football,  and we included everybody we'd play for long hours girls and boys  and  it was- we were limited in space  but we usually went-  we used the telephone poles as goal post  and um  we  had no really set patterns or plays  we'd  usually pass the ball for  a long distance and four downs  and you'd either score  or turn the ball over  to the other team.
Uh   for a while I- it w- it was- it was pretty fairly matched we-  a lot of times I wasn't the quickest kid  but I was the tallest and that helped.
Not for a long time because  most of the kids  there were- were fairly equal  as far as athletic ability  well for the- for the t- between the ages of  um  five through about twelve  and not until  around thirteen or so did-  did  it really become distinguishable ab-  about who was a good athlete and who wasn't.
Well um  we did  a lot of that when we couldn't find a football or a baseball and bat,  and um  we'd  hide  i- in garages, in trees,  on garages,  under cars,  and um  this was pretty much the basic game that we'd been taught  in  elementary school.
Um  well  you usually- again you usually used a telephone pole  or a lamp post as base,  and then  one person  would be-  would  volunteer to be it,  and everyone else- he- this person would hide his face against the pole so that he couldn't see,  and everyone else would run  and hide  and it was  this person's job to come and find these people  and to beat them back to the base  and tag them out.
Um  yes we did.
Uh let's see,  I- I really can't recall any of 'em one of of 'em was  s- I think um  I spy,  stick 'em in the eye who stole my apple pie, and um  oh there- there were a few more  but it was usually girls who were  usually good at the rhymes the boys usually just counted.
I don't- the girls  were  famous for using the rhymes when they jumped rope,  and um  they were more used to it, the boys  thought this rather childish and  this was associated with the girls so with the boys it was usually just counting  or just waiting.
No we just didn't really bother with- we never really bothered to learn them.
Um  a lot of times-  well  again the girls were-  or d- uh  picked these things up from jumping rope and no boys didn't usually jump rope with the girls and so uh  we- we really didn't bother about learning the rhymes or anything.
Every now and then we'd pick up a rhyme and it- it'd just stick with us for a while but um the boys usually counted.
Oh  they'd play with their dolls  and this bothered me.
Uh but  the girls in- in-  in  my neighborhood  were usually included in most of the boy's games,  and so um they were just as rough as the boys many times and a lot of times rougher.
In-  in football  and baseball, they were a lot better  occasionally,  and  um  they-  they'd fit in when- whenever we were really desperate for -  for somebody to play it- it was always a girl we'd usually call.
But there were plenty of girls,  and  it's- it's  I don't know it's something in- in the  kid's nature  to  tend to separate boys and girls  constantly and this is the way we were,  the girls w-  were playing with their dolls and the boys were playing with their model cars.
Um the girls were jumping rope and the boys were playing football.
And this was the way it was for a long time.
Yes I do.
Well  now,  my favorite shows  are- are  athletic  events such as um, football and basketball, especially basketball.
Um,  I still really enjoy cartoons.
Um uh yeah the super hero cartoons and  the  c- cartoons that  involve um,  comic book characters.
I- I really find these interesting.
Oh like Superman and um  Batman the cartoon, better than the-  the TV program, Um The Lone Ranger  oh um,  there- there- there are several others that come on  especially Saturday morning, and  I usually watch my share of them.
Oh  um,  uh  it's- it's really hard  like  it- it depends on the way my  ti- what my time allows me to do now.
I  usually have to do a lot of running around for my mother and taking my sister places  so  I usually catch  the last part  of Spiderman  or- or Superman  and  there's nothing really particular that stands out as a-  a really  good show.
I f- you know I just find them all interesting and-  and  I don't know m- this may be because my sister  is just a year younger than I am but she still enjoys them too,  and so, um,  this is about the only thing that we can really agree on as far as watching TV we both enjoy cartoons.
Um  nothing really  because  I- I watch a lot of the programs  and  I-  I enjoy them,  but I'm usually doing something  else in the process of watching so nothing really  sticks in my mind  as an outstanding program.
If it's  a program I-  I enjoy I- I'll  watch it,  um,  I like a lot of the-  the spy thrillers that come on now such as um, It Takes a Thief and Mission Impossible  and I Spy  but there's-  there's nothing  about them that  really  lingers in my mind as being an outstanding  event of this particular program.
Um  well uh  the best  program I think  on It Takes a Thief was  um  the episode in which  he had to  steal  well he's always stealing  but uh  in  which he had to steal cercain  certain  documents  um  for the government I think it in-  it was the first-  one of the first programs  to come on.
I- I really can't  remember  relate all the ideas to the-  to th- these particular programs  because I w-  I- maybe because I watch so many.
Um  a lot of the movies I- I really enjoy.
Um  Bridge on the River Kwan was a very good movie,  and um  I- I-  I watch-  again, I watch a lot of movies and  at times I can  never really-  really call  any-  any particular names and  and say that this  movie was  really good and this one was really bad,  but I hate musicals    and um  if  a movie  doesn't have a lot of action  I won't watch it, I- I re-  a lot of the old movies  I really despise  because  the  dramatics are so bad.
Well I find them bad anyway,  but um  I- I  like a lot of adventure and a lot of action  in my movies.
Um  oh  um,  it was just last Sunday- uh last Saturday night as a matter of fact I was watching a good movie.
Oh I think the last movie I saw was-  was last night and that was The Interns  and this was a very good movie I really enjoyed it, yes.
The New Interns yes.
Well it- it-  it-  to sort of generalize  the- the  type of life  led by  someone  going into the m- medical  profession  as a doc- wanting to become a doctor,  and- and  how-  the problems that he faced, the problems  in general that a hospital faced,  the problems that um  the head  intern faced,  and um  it was-  it was a good series because  it w- there was a l-  lot of action, there was a lot of  personal  involvement  and emotion and understanding,  and um  it was- I thought it was a very good movie.
Well  a movie has to be able to  continually hold my interest  and  and  keep me  really involved in it,  like I'll find-  Westerns I- I usually enjoy because this is what I've been brought up,  and  um  I- if it's a  really good Western with someone really good such as Randolph Scott  or um  several others,  I'll- I'll sit down and I'll-  I'll really watch it  but again,  there has to be a lot of action,  uh it must be continuous,  and  it- it must be realistic  as po-  as realistic as possible.
And  um  drama,  I-  I like a lot of drama too.
Dramas  are- are very good and this has-  this has become more evident in-  in me now that  I've  gotten into high school and we've read a lot of dramatic plays  and  things of this nature  that I sit and I study the characters  and  the-  the problems that they face  and try to relate them  to what I know as a person.
Well I- I have my four majors of  uh chemistry,  um  geometry, English, and French,  and  I'm n- not very  enthalled  with um  with foreign languages  and  English is  good when  we-  we discuss drama but I despise poetry.
Um  math I like and chemistry I like.
I like sciences Um  I have a speech course, a minor speech course yes.
And um, well this is  just to um  make us acquainted  with  um  what is necessary in public speaking  and this is what we do, we speak before the class  on different types of speeches  for different purposes,  um  impromptu speeches and speeches read  and speeches  um  prepared but use-  but you use foul cards instead of reading  the- the speech out  from paper.
Um chemistry  I guess would  probably  be my favorite,  but right now I'm very bored with school  and so  uh  I have no particular favorite.
Well um  it depends on- I'm at a private school and so it would vary  greatly from  a typical school day in a public school,  which one would you like?
Alright okay,  well um,  I usually start out in the morning  about  six-thirty, I- I have to get up early,  um I- I have to drop my mother off  at work and I have to drop my sister off at school,  and I pick up a friend of mine,  and because my mother has to m- meet her ride early in the morning,  I have to leave earlier.
And so  um  I-  I get ready, I have breakfast,  I um  take care of the car  um  I  take my sister to school,  I drop my mother off to meet her ride and then I go on to s-  to school after I pick up my friend and  we  are usually  the- one of the first people to arrive it's-  we usually get to school I would imagine  somewhere in the neighborhood of  quarter of to ten of of eight.
And um  unless I really have some pressing work  I'll go to the vestibule  of the up- of the high school  and we'll sit in there and this is where  everyone collects and talks and  discusses homework and  what happened at the  the  athletic events the day before,  and who's doing what  wh- and when,  and um  at  eight-twenty we-  we  proceed to our home rooms.
Uh, again this is sort of a s-  social hour, we're running around and  talking and  doing homework when- when we w-  are really pressed, and um  at eight-  eight-thirty um  we're  in our home rooms,  attendance is taking,  um  notices- important notices are read  um  class business is taken care of.
Our first period begins about  eight  forty  and um  th- for me that's chemistry.
Excuse me.
On-  on Mondays and Wednesdays I have a double period of chemistry so I'm there for first and second period, these are lab periods.
Um  other days,  I'm usually  in study hall,  I have those-  I have the second period free and I have chemistry every day the first period  and  s- s- several days I have second period free  and  on  several days I have the third period free, either I'm in speech class  or supposedly at gym  but uh  during basketball season I'm excused from gym  so that I can  supposedly  use these-  these  free periods for  homework  and the fourth period  is  English and  this is pretty good, we have a good teacher  and although he gets rather general at times we have a good time arguing.
Um  fifth period is lunch  and this is  I think forty-five minutes which is very good and  we have  very good lunches.
Uh after lunch is another  um  social hour  are  um  for those who it  may prove necessary  study period.
Um  the-  the sixth period is  French,  and then seventh period is-  is um  geometry.
The eighth period is a free period,  during  basketball season  it's  a period  where  we can leave  and  get ourselves prepared for the-  the game that afternoon,  or um  do homework  or just run around and  do nothing which is usually the case.
Right, um  basket-  during basketball season  uh  practice is usually from  three-thirty sometimes four o'clock until  about six,  and then  um  for a while I've-  I've been driving,  um  I have riders and so  by the time I take them home  and get home myself it's usually about seven.
And it's dark, I'm very tired, it's cold,  it's late,  and I'll go home and eat  and  do a little homework and g-  usually go to bed.
Um  r- last year  I  ran track and so this  was-  this  took up most of my time during the Spring,  But um this year  I gave it up  and  I go home and play basketball.
Yes.
Well  Sidwell Friends is a  private school it's- it's  f- was founded by the Quakers and it's  set up on a Quaker taji-  tradition.
And um  it's-  it's a small school in comparison to the public schools, it's rather large in comparison  to the other private schools  um  there are three hundred- I think three hundred eighty  pupils in the high school  and um  it is  a very very good academic school.
It's um  it's  a school- it's a college prep school and  you're almost guaranteed  um  a college  acceptance  somewhere, it may not be the-  quite the college that you want  but it- it will be a good college.
And if you really do your work and  and do  work to the best of your ability  you'll have no problem at all it's um  not really that hard actually,  it's a matter of getting used to the pattern the way it-  the teachers  teach, what is expected of you.
Um  you learn  what work you can do and work-  work you can't do  and when you become used to this  it's not very hard at all.
It's-  it's a good school but  after  being in- in public school for  um  since Kindergarten through-  through ninth grade  it- it-  there's a lot that it lacks as far as  personal contact and personal development because  people tend to-  to overly stress  the academics more so than the personal development  and this is  what I resent most about it.
Um  no  n- not really.
Um  I've never  really had any trouble with  any of my teachers as far as getting along with them,  um there have been a lot of teachers I didn't like and there- I've had a lot of teachers who  I didn't think  could really teach,  but um  I've put up with it  and  uh because I had to.
But I've never had a teacher who-  who  was  uh  a real  antagonist who really yelled a lot,  made a lot of noise.
Oh I've been yelled at a lot of times but uh I- it was- I- it was  deserved I- I guess.
So it's-  it's-  I don't know it's been  beneficial.
Oh um  a lot of times it was just playing, I'd get caught playing and fooling around, acting silly.
Um  that's-  that's a hard question because there have  been several really good teachers I had a  very good  science teacher in-  in junior high school.
I um  I-  well I had a  good  math teacher and  I've-  I've worked with a good math teacher,  and I've um  I've had  very good teachers  the majority of my teachers at- at Sidwell have been-  been very good.
It's um  I- I don't know there are a lot of ways you can classify your teachers you know there are teachers who  you'll say- who are very good because you- they're easy to get along with and then there are teachers who are  very good because  they're- they're good teachers  and um  it's- it's been sort of  both ways.
Um  a lot of my teachers have been very good  but haven't been able to be  really outstanding teachers in the eyes of other people  because of the situations in which they had to teach.
And this you know is a very bad thing because they're-  they're judged by their performance  but not-  the-  by their general performance but not by their performance in their  given situation.
Um, I  did-  I did in junior high school um  a math teacher.
And um  he wasn't a good teacher because he couldn't teach  and  he was-  he-  he tried  and  he-  I don't- he  really didn't understand what he was doing wrong I don't think.
But he was- he was a very smart man but he just couldn't teach, and  this was  his fault and he didn't last very long.
Um  I didn't- I've been counseled by a lot of teachers,  um,  I-  I really  can't  say that  there was one  particular teacher  I- there was one particular situation  in which I was counseled by a lot of teachers uh which made me  decide  where I wanted to go  but  I've never  really been  counsel-  counseled  by  one particular teacher  and um  thi-  this hasn't  really  been any  real-  really  great influence on  my life.
Mm not  anymore well,  um  I learned a long time ago  never to get  associated with one particular group  because it was a dangerous situation  you know between-  with rivalry between other groups.
And um  I-  I- I sort of stay  in the middle  of-  of  a lot of things I-  I never  got associated with  one  specific group at- at- at one given time, and in my  present situation now  I'm really lost  because  I'm  in a  predominantly white  environment  with school life and-  and  now social life  and um  I live  in  a  predominantly  black environment, and this is a- a great conflict because I-  I can't- I'm sort of lost I-  I can't really relate to my neighborhood,  my church,  a lot of my friends anymore,  and I don't really  fit in in this  totally white  environment that I'm- I'm in now.
Um.
No  there again um  I wasn't really associated with  one particular group there were several people  who I was  constantly seen with,  but um  this was  sort of a general thing too because  we were together because we  grew up together there were -  there were three- four of us actually  two-  um  two brothers  and, um,  they lived up the street and  uh one other boy and he lived up above them on the other side.
And so  um  we- we all grew up together, we all played together, we all fought together, we'd fight each other constantly, and so we were-  we were  all together most of the time so  I guess if  there was any-  any group that I could be associated with  it would be the other three boys that I r- I really grew up with and  that I was really close to for most of my life.
Well,  um  uh  not-  not really,  um  when we got into the Scouts  um  they ended up  with-  it ended up with me being the leader.
But um  there was no-  there was no real leader because  when  one would suggest that-  that we all do this or-  or that we all do that,  and if someone didn't  want to or feel that this was  what  they wanted to do or what they should do  um  they  usually went about their own-  own business with  out  too much argument.
And um  because we-  we-  we grew up  together and  we were-  we were pretty close  and  we did fight among each other a lot it- the  l- the leadership wasn't really accepted.
Not until later on.
Mm if they do  uh it's because this is what they've been taught in school.
Yes.
Well  um,  my first real  involvement with whites  um happened when  I was transferred from Langley  to Gordon  and um,  I was-  I was really surprised I-  I really didn't know how to handle myself  um, at first,  and I found out  that  they were  human just like everybody else, and  you know that I  could  associate, that I could get along,  and that  you know there was no-  no great problem  about  people  you know and  I-  I learned to -  to say  people  and not  black people white people but  just people.
And this is the way I've-  I've made myself think  so that  um,  I- I can get along now  um,  at- at least it seems that way.
I know that  at Friends a lot of this  superficial because this is the way that Friends is.
Um,  everybody is a friend  at school  and on campus  but things  change an awful lot  when  you get off campus,  and this-  this is  bothering me, it's bothers me now more so than it has in the past because I finally realized it.
But um,  I do have a lot of  close  white friends.
A lot of people who I can really talk to, a lot of people who I feel close to,  and um,  a lot of people who  try- who are trying to understand,  and so this is good I think, yeah.
Well,  now that  I've been  pushed into this  our white society,  I wanna go to the college, make a lot of money and be rich,  and have a fine house and couple of cars and raise a family just like everybody else.
But um,  I-  deep down inside this-  there's a lot more that  I'd like to do um,  I  don't wanna go to Vietnam, um,  I-  I was thinking a-  and I have been thinking very seriously  about joining VISTA for a year before I go to college.
Um,  I'm  really interested in people  and-    and  working with people and their problems because  I've worked  with kids from the inner city,  and um  I have study-  studied and read up on  the problems and  I am  acquainted with  what's going on there.
I'd be  really interested i- in  in working there.
So I really haven't decided  yet where-  what I wanna do, um  as far as college goes now I  I think that I- I wanna major in electronical engineering.
Haven't decided what college I want to go to but  as a generalization of  the type of college,  I wanna go to a big school  in a big city.
And  I wanna go somewhere I can play ball.
And so uh this is-  this is the main thing right now,  getting into college, because this is the situation that I'm caught up in.
Because  I've been involved-  m-  my-  my a-  the atmosphere at Friends is um  a microcosm.
You're in  this small  you-  you- you have your own small little world.
The school is very small, there's-  there's very little contact with the outside world,  and  as far as um,  personal contact  they're- you know,  the people are  really well acquainted with  what's going on in the news and the world situation and-  and this sort of thing.
but theres c- very little  personal contact  between  um,  the other people, the people who are out on Wisconsin Avenue, you're in-  you're in this  microcosm,  and  you- I wanna get out of it.
And  I really don't like it because  I was in public school,  public schools were always over crowded,  I had a good time,  I really felt good in public school, I had no problems in public school,  and  I wanna go back to  a lot of people, a big situation again.
Well  um,  some of the colleges that I have read up on r-  offer  a regular four year  um degrees for  your  Bachelor of Science I think and  then um  I think there was one college that had a five year course.
But um,  if I  consider  graduate school which  will probably be necessary,  um,  I should imagine it would take  somewhere in the neighborhood of  six or seven years  of school.
Uh  that's a  very hard question because  I-  I tend to be  idealistic about money  because  here again  it's the situation that I'm in.
Um  Friends-  the- the people at Friends are very very rich, we have  the majority of the  upper class  white  s-  in  our um  surrounding area, not the majority but a great number  of upper class whites  in the Washington area,  and um  they-  two parents  at- at  some point could get together  and buy the s- whole school out  just to show you how much money there is.
And so,  I've been pushed into this situation where money-  a lot of money has become an important thing to me,  and  I-  I guess I'd-  I'd probably end up doing the same thing  that um  the whites are doing.
I'd  get a big fine house out in the suburbs and have my big fine cars,  two or three,  and  I'd have  my big fine  lawn with my big fine swimming pool.
And I-  I'd be  shut off fr-  from the outer world just like-  just like they would.
But this isn't really what I want now and this is what  I'm trying to fight  because  I don't wanna  become  typical middle class and say, I've got mine now  and move a-  move away  and turn my back on those others who  who really need my help.
And so  I- I really  you know it's-  it's a bad thing.
I think it would be bad for me to have all that money.
Oh I look for as many parties as I can  this is- this is a another thing um  at-  at Friends  um,  they have dances and  and there's a Christmas dance and there's a prom,  and  we have our vacations but  I'm-  again- here again  I'm trying- I wanna go back to my  old neighborhood to  what was  originally established for me, and what I think is a lot better because again,  a lot- so much at-  at  my school is superficial and it bothers me.
And you don't-  as  being black I really don't fit in  like  um  you'd-  one would be led to believe.
And so um  during the Christmas holidays I'm calling all my old friends, seeing- trying to see as many people as I can, uh looking for all the parties that I can find.
Um  Easter is a bad time because  we  really don't have an Easter vacation at Friends we have a s- what  is termed a Spring vacation.
And  like this year our Spring vacation was a week  before  the Easter vacation of the public schools  so that  I was out and they were in,  they were out  and I was in,  and this made it very very hard on me to s- to see anybody at all.
And so  now  the only thing  that's left for me to do  is try to catch up  because we-  we get out before the public schools do,  and to make my rounds in public school  before I start work.
Yes.
I'm gonna work for the Naval Ordnance Laboratory in White Oaks.
Maryland Yes.
I don't know yet um,  it's-  It's a job  under  the Youth Opportunity Program, and um  I was told that  there were openings.
Clerical work,  uh, manual labor,  and technical assistance and I'm hoping for a technical assistance job.
Um,  get ready for school next year I guess,  it's my senior year.
It- it takes a lot of money for  a school like Friends just  not only to pay the tuition and the books and the lunches and so forth,  but  just  socially  because it's  uh-  The things that-  that emph- That are socially  acceptable or  that  the way that the school is socially oriented  i- there's l-  necessity for a great deal of  money  and  pocket money and  so this is gonna be another thing, I h- I'll help my parents as much as I can.
I've got to start preparing for college to have money to go-  To take with me away  to school  and so forth and  I have a car now.
So.
That- Well  uh, my parents got a new car  and  the-  the  dealer wasn't gonna give us anything for the old car.
So we decided to keep the old car for me and so-  Yeah uh-  Uh  I um- I spend a lot of money on the car now.
Uh, yes.
Uh, yes um,  it was  last year  in  March,  we had just finished playing in the St.
Anselm's basketball tournament,  and  our-  It's a tradition that our basketball team has a banquet,  and  this particular year we were going to the Washingtonian.
And  it was a bad night, it was really dark and  misty and rainy and the s-  and the road was slick and we were going out seventy S,  so on the way out there,  the- the boy that was driving  um,  was going pretty fast and we kept telling him to slow down because it was dark  and it wa- and the roads were slick  and we were in a Mustang which  doesn't hold the road very well.
Um,  coming back  we were  approaching Georgia Avenue and there were two signs  that s- One says Georgia Avenue Wheaton,  and  the other says Georgia Avenue Silver Spring,  and we wanted the Georgia Avenue s- Silver Spring turnoff,  which is  the first turnoff,  and so  the-  the boy that was driving  was looking  at  the  Georgia Avenue  Wheaton  sign,  and  as  he-  Well  he  thought that  we had to go on to the next ez  exit,  so he didn't slow down.
And  the other boy that was in the car with us says,  that's the turnoff you want,  And  he tried to take it and we were doing  I would say around fifty  or sixty miles an hour  and  the-  He took the turn,  the car went into a spin  and  spun around into the ramp,  and hit the curb  and stopped in front of a  light post  and  there was no real damage done to the car I think his steering was  messed up a little bit.
But um,  it scared him more than it scared  me and I was af-  much more afraid than the guy in the back seat.
But I did see my whole life flash in front of me, and um, like this was the most trying time of my life I think.