Hopscotch,  uh, rope,  we jumped rope.
Uh,  Of course mothers and fathers.
Well someone was a mother and somebody else was a father and we played with dolls of course.
And-  Oh school of course.
Someone was a teacher,  and someone,  you know the others were the children,  good and bad.
And that's all I can think of right now.
Well you marked squares on the ground,  and you put the numbers in and-  in the squares  and you used either a stone or a piece of glass to  toss it into the block.
And then you would hop on one foot  until-  Has it been that long?
Until you  completed the numbers up to ten  and then you would come-  come back the other way.
Back to one.
And the person who  completed  or went all the way up to ten  without stepping on lines-  on the lines  and back would be the winner.
If I can remember correctly.
Yes.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Oh we played tag of course.
Well you would tag someone and then run from them and the person would have to tag everyone else  until-  until the last one was  tagged as-  as far as I remember.
I can't remember.
Well usually you-  you would pick a spot  or   maybe a tree.
And the last person to reach the tree was always it or at the lamp post or  something like that.
I can't think of any.
Hide and go seek?
Yes.
Well of course you- The last person to reach the tree or the  given spot  would be it.
And he would hide his face  and go through a rhyme, ha- And to give everybody a chance to hide and uh-  course the last person-  no the first person caught would be it.
Oh we had several, the o- the only one I can think of right now and I ca- what is it   Hi spy stick 'em in the eye,  who's that stole my apple pie,  apple pie are you ready.
And of course you would say no,  or until  you would hear no more voices and you would assume that everybody had  hidden in his spot  you know was- As far as I remember it was hide and go seek.
Maybe that was because it was the first line of one of the rhymes.
Do they have to be in order?
Oh I like Peyton Place I get angry about it but I still look at it.
Um,  Mission Impossible is  just about my favorite now I think.
And I like the comedy shows.
Oh I like The Smothers Brothers,  Dean Martin,  um- Let me-  All of them are very interesting, I like the different disguises that they use,  and um-  Well the situations they get into where they get out of them  at the very last minute.
Um, in one particular episode-  Is it Martin Landau?
I cannot think of his name.
It was one of the stars, they put on a disguise of one of the  crooks as we'll say.
And uh-  Oh he got the others angry with- he made the other people in the  association or gang angry with him  as this other man.
And uh,  they had planned to kill him.
And  in some way,  the other members of the Mission Impossible group  had gotten into the elevator next to the one that he was on.
And they had opened the doors, well this was pre-arranged,  as a slot,  I don't know if you would call it a slot,  at the bottom of the elevator.
And uh,  they put the real man  in the elevator that one of the Mission Impossible stars  was in.
And when  the elevator opened of course the crook or  the member of the gang  was supposed to kill this  guy who had turned on him.
And he did kill him, but it w- it was who he thought it was.
Well,  anyway they barely got out of that one.
And that's the way most of the shows run, they get out of a situation at the very last minute.
Mm.
Oh yes mm-hm,  to measure different things, I don't know how they  manage to set  this machinery up in every place that they- you know, they're situated but they manage to  get things set up amazingly.
Well Rodney  and Betty  remarried.
And um,  Norman, Rodney's brother,  well Norman and his wife inherited this money,  some money from uh,  her father.
And uh, Rita's mother  gave the money to them  and  Norman decided to set up a motorcycle uh,  I don't know whether it was a repair shop or  to sell motorcycles.
They were out riding- Well this is what happened last week, they were out riding and Steven, Betty's ex-husband- Yes, had convinced her to go riding with him.
And Rodney  and Norman were on a-  on a motorcycle testing it.
And Steven and Betty were in a car and of course they had to swerve to avoid hitting the motorcycle and of course Rodney was thrown off and his head  hit a tree.
And he's in critical condition and this is a point- Well in one  part of it  at this point.
And um,  he's been operated on but they don't know whether  he'll survive.
Well I went to the drive in Saturday but I don't think I'd want to relate those to you.
What did I see, I saw The Detective  and um,  it was very interesting, it was a movie  of a det-  about a detective, an honest cop as we shall say.
And uh,  it opens where there- a murder has been-  there's been a murder.
And of course it involves homosexuals and all.
And the man who's arrested of course isn't guilty,  but he does die in the-  Is it the gas cha- Electric chair.
Well of course  when-  Frank Sinatra stars in it and when he finds  there's corruption in the police department all throughout the city,  he goes after the  the boss or the  person in charge and in the  process he finds out that the wrong man has been convicted  of this crime.
And um-  Well he turns in his resignation because he has found all of this information on these t-  the top people in the city who were also  people in high places,  and he does resign as a detective and that's the way it ends.
It's very interesting it's  a lot more to it though.
Mm-mm.
What specifically?
Or what specific subject interested me?
Well I didn't want to take any more English, that's for sure.
And ended up majoring in English  in college but um,  always liked math until I got to geometry.
And I always wanted to be a teacher.
And I think-  Well,  because I-  I like to read.
I think that is one of my favorite pastimes.
I like  romance.
I like stories with a happy ending of course.
And um-  Mostly that, I guess I live in a dream world.
Oh, you mean in the Summer time?
Or after school during-  Mm.
Of course you would go home to change your clothes and  be ready to come out and play.
We would go to the playground some days and play kickball or  dodge or  rope.
Double dutch as they called it.
And then of course it  was time for dinner.
And  well in elementary school,  around that time we didn't have a TV so I guess it was radio and then to bed.
But in junior high of course we had a TV and  it was always Howdy Doody.
Captain Video and all of that.
And  we did a lot of- We  played at the playground quite a bit.
Recreation department.
We were only allowed to visit that one family on Saturday nights and that was when Paul Whiteman used to come on,  when we would-  you know most of the kids in the block would go up to this lady's house to  watch that.
Well if there wasn't a basketball game or a football game  of course  by that time you would go home and you had to wash dishes or you know  prepare dinner.
Um,  watch TV until dinner time and then after dinner,  TV again, and on the weekends of course there were parties.
And homework.
Well in the summer we did, we played softball and we would play basketball until the boys would run us off of the basketball court.
And we would play the games at the-  at the recreation department, you know the-  the box type games you know the  checkers and all.
I'm sure I must have but I can't recall any.
Mm.
Well I'll tell you what irks me.
Well kids popping gum,  cracking gum in class or talking to their neighbors or  playing when I'm trying to teach something.
Well I would have to say a college professor.
A Dr.
RD-NAME-1 who  got me interested in English literature.
And I thought that I-  Well I  one day would like to get a master's in English literature.
And I think she  was the one who inspired me more.
Well for one thing- Maybe it's because she knew her subject matter, but she  didn't use notes, she talked  you know  how do you say, off the cuff.
And maybe it's because she knew so much, she talked as though she knew the people  personally.
Uh, the different authors she knew something about their  you know little  shady side of their lives.
And I guess that comes through reading.
But uh, she would-  she could just ramble on and on without  you know the use of notes or she would have some notes,  but I mean she could just talk spontaneously you know  about these different people.
I'm sure there must have been those too.
Oh yes, yes, yes, yes.
A section teacher in junior high school  who used to accuse me of doing things that I never  would dream of doing.
If I- Well,  I might have been doing things to irritate her I would sit and  you know  do this.
And she would get on me about that.
But I mean I was doing it unconsciously but she used to just find little things to- She's the one that I remember.
Well I do believe she did have a- Well,  did she yell at me?
Those were things that  hurt my feelings.
I don't recall her actually yelling.
But it was just a way she had of embarrassing me.
And I-  The point was I was innocent in most cases.
I can't recall unless it was a trick I played on someone.
We had a substitute once who-  Well I knew  that he sang, well he still sings.
And uh, the kids wanted him to sing, this was in high school.
And I could be a class clown at times.
And uh, he said something, I was sitting in the back of the room with my girlfriend,  and I turned around as-  I was in the back, the wall was the next thing,  and I turned around as if I didn't know he was talking about me.
Maybe it's because I didn't wanna hear him sing.
Cause all the kids had said, oh sing a song sing this song that you recorded and all, I said ah we don't wanna hear that.
Only a group in the neighborhood.
It was no club or anything of that sort it was just-  Well at one time,  when I was in junior high school, from junior high- junior high and senior high,  we stayed in the same  general area of Brookland,  and we  had no reason to leave that area except to maybe go to school.
But we were very close,  and the group just stayed together.
No.
At one time  there were es-  two girls but they didn't live-  well they lived out th-  in the area for a while and then that was-  oh I don't think it was any more than a year or so.
Or maybe they were just there vacationing and used to come  in the Summer, I can't remember who they were visiting either.
Not really, not that I can recall no.
The leaders used to change I guess we changed so often  I can't remember any one.
For a while?
Oh if your m-  parents would let you have a party at your house every week.
Or maybe if uh- Well we were too young then to consider cars or maybe too poor.
Well when the first person in the group got a car of course he was the leader.
And you know you always wanted to ride with him but other than that oh well.
Usually they were very fair or they weren't partial to people.
Um,  they were liked by everyone.
And  that's all that I can think of.
Yes.
Mm.
Well if- well,  I was considered somewhat of a tomboy.
Usually if he could play a sport well.
Because we- Well during the summer,  we were centered around the recreation department.
Or if he could dance very well, if he or she could dance very well that usually had something to do with it.
And  I guess attractiveness had something to do with it also.
Oh yes you had to do something, you had to have some talent some way.
Either you had a nice record player,  or a nice recreation room,  and your parents wouldn't mind  you know, your having people over to dance  or listen to records.
I don't think so I think I'd still rather be a teacher.
Yes.
Oh four years of college at a- Well I went to RD-SCHOOL-6,  and um,  it was four years of college as far- Well I understand now the requirements are changing where you go four years to a liberal arts college and then  a year-  an- an extra year of education courses.
I- I don't know when this is supposed to start, I don't think it's for a couple of years though but they're changing the requirements in the district.
Because The Federal College is supposed to take over  The RD-SCHOOL-4.
If I had all of the money?
All that I wanted?
What would I do?
Well I would put my mother and father in a h- not in a home but I would see that  they were taken care of first.
And of course I think I would buy a home for myself and I would see that  my daughter's education  was taken care of.
I would change my car  from an-  a compact un-air conditioned if that's the word car  to an air conditioned car.
And probably travel.
I think.
Yes.
And the home that I would get of course would have to have  a spacious library.
It would have to have a spacious bathroom  and a huge kitche-  kitchen.
And a nice recreation room of course, but uh, there are two main things I  look for, a bathroom and a kitchen to be large and a-  Well then there's a third thing.
Well I should say the house should be large.
Oh yes.
Well then of course I would have money to get someone to clean.
And I would have a swimming pool of course.
An area for tennis An area- Well golf, and other sports you know things of that sort.
At school?
Mm.
After I greet my section well I would  usually-  Well I sign in in the morning.
And then greet my section.
And usually they are with me about ten minutes unless they happen to be my first hour class.
And I have drill work on the board for them.
And we discuss the drill work and go into whatever we're discussing or working on at that point.
And usually I have about five classes,  last year I had four.
I eat lunch in the cafeteria.
Can't wait until three o'clock.
And- Junior high.
And I pick up my daughter after school from a nursery school even though she goes to public school,  because I have to be at school  so much earlier than she does.
She goes to a nursery school in the morning and in the afternoon I pick her up.
Sometimes we go out to eat, sometimes we go shopping.
Sometimes I just  you know, come home to cook,  wash dishes,  and watch TV.
And if I happen to have any papers that need to be graded.
Which I really don't like to do at home.
At school?
Yes, mmhm.
But if you go to the lounge you don't get very much accomplished.
You end up  talking and drinking a soda.
We usually get together, I'm from a very large fram- family.
Well there were eight of us I just lost a brother about  a month ago my oldest brother.
But we usually get together  with all the  children and grandchildren of course.
Over-  We used to- we usually go to my parents's home  and  clown.
At Christmas time,  um,  I don't think on any other holiday  that I can recall.
I really can't.
Unless it was a piece of luggage  that I've finally been able to afford to add to.
No, it was expensive that was all, it was more than I could afford it was Samsonite Silhouette.
I had asked for a set of Lady Baltimore, well I wanted a piece of Lady Baltimore luggage.
And uh, my mother  brought me a piece of Samsonite  and um,  the cheapest piece of a piece of Samsonite  costs as much as the most expensive piece of Lady Baltimore.
So that's why it- it's been so long, well I've had it for  several years and I'm just beginning to  add to it.
Not that I travel that m-  Maybe that's why I haven't added to it sooner because I don't do that much traveling.
Really can't afford it.
Not that I can recall no.
I say that that- whether I believe it or not I don't know, I try to look at life that way that-  Well as far as death is concerned I say well,  we're all going to die  and I try to look at it in that way that  when it's our time  that's the way it'll be.
But as far- What do you mean, as far as  other things in life are concerned?
I don't believe whatever will be will be you have to  go after some things.
Most things you have to work for.
It's not going to just fall into your lap.