Well um  I played uh baseball  when I was a kid.
We'd call it stickball.
Atlanta Mm-mm.
One other game we played, I done forgot the name of it now.
Uh..
Beg your pardon?
Oh, well, uh you just get a a ball and a bat,  and hit the ball to someone else, you know?
Uh there's a vast difference between it.
You just throw the ball up and hit it,  see?
Hit the ball as it come down.
No, uh  it'd be some more kids to catch the ball,  and they would throw it back to you.
And then you hit it again.
So many strikes is out.
It's- it's on the same similar basis a baseball uh,  but after so many strikes you out.
Well we scored 'em in uh  in a way like uh  three strikes, you're out.
And if you hit it two times,  well,  you done automatically won your points then.
You never played it?
Huh?
You never played- uh stick ball?
Sometime a loser.
What do you say?
Well my favorite TV program uh, I uh, I think they're off the air now.
It's this uh  uh  what is his name?
He used to play on another show.
He rides on a car.
What's his name?
I will ask you about it.
Oh it's about crime mostly.
But musically, uh  I would prefer uh listen to Frank Sinatra,  somebody like that.
Yeah, uh, that's what I was tryna bring to you.
Uh,  this crime story, but I done forgot the name of it!
The adventure of this crime story was uh  fella was trying to ship out  the United States  into Argentina.
And uh  this crippled fella,  you know his name, I told you about him.
This guy's no help to me.
He was a detective.
His name is-  I can't picture his name now period.
Um.
Yeah.
Well, it- it was very uh, very nice.
He played a detective.
Oh well he captured the fella as, you know, they usually do.
Well sure.
Uh  he had a colored fella, was a driver in this  thing made up as a Jeep  like.
And uh  they stopped him as he was  getting ready to uh  airlift  off the airport,  and they stopped him there.
That was the ending of the story of course.
Well the last movies I seen was uh, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.
It was about  inter-racial problems,  mostly.
Yes.
Guess Who Was Coming to Dinner.
Well uh  they solve their problem  evidently.
Well of a different talk about uh  you know problem  and mixed marriage and what not.
Well they solved it.
Yes, uh  mm  it was  way back uh-  I think it was in fifty  three.
Richard Widmark and the same  Sydney Poitier.
But uh  this uh  movies was based on uh,  more of uh,  Sidney Poitier played as a doctor, and Richard Widmark, he was uh  fella that was being arrested,  but he had to commit to this uh hospital for  treatment.
And he didn't want  Sidney Poitier  to treat him.
He would prefer a white doctor from Sidney Poitier, but  Sidney Poitier had to treat him.
I done forgot the name of it, uh- fifty three, that was a long time ago, you know?
Oh, well it worked out okay.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
What all happen?
Well, yes, it's been too long.
I can't even remember all that happened.
I had one once.
Dog.
Oh well he,  act like the average  you know, pet will act.
No,  mm-mm.
Well I used to years ago, but now I don't go for it  very much.
Well I used to watch fights too, but I don't go for fights anymore now.
Yeah, I remember uh  Joe Louis and uh  Max Baer,  and I also remember Joe Louis and, uh,  Ezra Charles.
And uh  it was different one all down the line  you know, that Joe Louis fought.
I remember all of those, and also with a  this fighter, uh.
His name was Jersey Joe Walcott.
And I remember when Joe Louis was knocked out by uh  Rocky  Marciano.
Well  it didn't last that long to talk about.
Well uh, my major study, I  like, uh  Geography.
I beg your pardon?
Well I wasn't very good in uh, Arithmetic,  and uh,  they had a different name for it then.
I wasn't very good at that.
But Geography,  I majored in that.
Well, after school was out, I had-  I had to go home and work.
Eh?
Oh well uh  I have to deliver the evening papers  out Chevy Chase Way,  and after that  I'll come home.
Yes.
During the summer, I had to go the farm.
Oh well uh,  everything.
Well uh  I don't think you will understand it.
See, uh, during those times you had to work with a hoe.
We hoed the garden, and  did all the farm work that was necessary to be did.
Yes, mm-hm.
We had cows and  pigs,  chickens  and ducks,  different kind of fowl.
I can't hear you.
No, mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
Yes.
Well she was a hell of a lady, uh  her name was Miss RD-NAME-1.
Well she was just nice to me.
She was nice to all the kids.
She never scold 'em too much.
Yeah, one.
Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
Well I guess it's just like every classroom.
Uh  a teacher  have their own pets.
So she had her own pets.
No I wasn't one of 'em.
I can't- Yes, I played a trick on a teacher once .
I put a firecracker.
See uh, those days they had these  wood stoves, you know?
Long stoves?
So I throwed the firecracker in there and bust the stove all to pieces  Uh, she give me about  five or six licks in the hand.
That was all of it.
No, I didn't have  chance to play.
I always had to work.
I'd go back to school.
Wa- I beg your pardon?
Well what I always wanted to be was uh  to teach  medicine.
That's what I always wanted to be.
About,  I guess now,  well it will take close to  ten years  to major in it.
What?
Around this building here?
Oh different things I'm called on to do.
Oh well they might ask me to mop a floor, uh  clean up a bathroom or  different things.
Uh uh Well yesterday morning right when I came in uh  I uh  washed off the front doors, sprayed out my mats,  different other things in general  I recall.
Well if I uh  had all the money I wanted,  oh well I will  save some for myself and gave-  give the rest of it to  charity.
I would keep it for myself for living.
No, nothing special.
You don't mind if I smoke?
Well as I told you once before, uh,  see I lost my family when I was very young.
Oh we had turkey, ham.
Sometime a few drinks.
The best thing I got for Christmas was uh new pair of shoes once.
Well they was uh-  Mama bought 'em at Hechts.
That was years and years ago.
Oh several times.
Mm-hm.
Well I just  snapped out of it like that.
Oh I was cut several times.
Mm-hm.
Well it- it was uh,  it was behind the   and in the Service,  you have to face dangers in the Service anyway so,  I just mark it all to the same thing.
Yes, yes, that's my belief.
Mm-hm.
I don't think so.