What, count to ten now?
Oh, my name is RD-NAME-4 One, two  three  four  five, six, seven  eight  nine, ten.
Uh,  I played Hide and Go Seek, and  baseball,  a little bit of football,  some basketball.
That's all.
We used to uh, find a tree,  and you hide your face and  you say uh,  I spy, stick him in the eye, whoever stole my apple pie.
And you say, all around my base is it,  and, ready or not, and the person that you catch  then they it while you go hide.
Uh, I never played that.
Yeah, I play basketball all the time on the playground.
No, I used to play on a team when I went Catholic School though.
Not anymore.
What, in basketball?
Well I shoot a,  you know,  lay up.
I'm not too good, you know.
Nah,  Nah, I'm too short for that.
Nah, I never played that.
Oh, yeah, I used to shoot marbles.
Well, you know, we used to draw a little circle in the dirt,  and each man put in like  two marbles,  and y- and each marble you knock out the uh, circle is yours  and you know, you try to win all the marbles,  have a collection.
So you know,  whoever got the most marbles the best marble shooter.
Oh, well, we used to put our feet  all together,  and say something like  you know, Mickey Mouse built a house.
How many, you know, bricks did he use?
and  like if you say, four,  you count around four whoever four land on then he out,  and the last man still in that's the man it.
Yeah, we used to say it like that, too.
Well, I don't remember it too good, but  one potato, two potato, three potato more.
Something like that,  you know.
Um, yeah I watch a lot of television, sometimes.
Like I like to look at uh, I Spy, you know, but I don't get in til late.
And uh,  It Takes a Thief, Sunday Night at the Movie,  something like that.
Well,  not really, you know.
I-  I watch it and  you know, I don't really remember about what happened  to next day, you know.
Nothing like that.
No, I did- I haven't been looking at TV lately.
You know, I've been working and you know, partying at night.
Well, I work at the RD-JOB-4 as a uh, case worker,  you know.
I work with little children who've been in trouble for the first time at number thirteen precinct.
And you know, I talk to 'em about uh,  you know,  do they think what they did was right and  you know, would they do it all over again and try to you know, try to uh-  You know, I know the environment they in, and I try to  you know, make 'em overlook the environment to b-  You know,  go to something a little higher.
Oh- Yeah, we have children like broke in a house, something like that.
Ain't but nine years old.
And you know, hook school, don't like school  or stole something out the drug store.
You know, mostly  you know, little things  that could lead to bigger things though,  you know.
Oh well, we had a uh-  I was working here as just uh, you know-  We j- clean up this place, and uh, one day they aksed us did we wanna start some new,  you know, groups.
So I suggested a juvenile delinquents group  cause uh, you know I figured I could talk to uh, juvenile children you know, cause I was-  I know how it is when they coming up.
So uh,  we agreed and got together and went down to number thirteen,  and they gave us some help.
They agreed  so uh,  you know, we got it on the ball.
It's only five of us on the uh, staff.
But in the summer we hope to, you know,  put on more people, make it a  you know,  city wide thing.
I would like to go into that in the future.
That's what I was thinking about, but uh,  they say when you go to college, you gotta take up this and all that, you know.
I don't really know if I'm qualified or not, but I think I got the ability to you know, talk to the children, make 'em understand me,  you know.
But I- You know, I like to be a case worker or something like that, like a probation officer, so.
Yeah,  that's- that's what I think they need you know, younger uh, case workers, you know  who can understand the children's problem.
Every now and then when something, you know, uh,  supposed to be good come to the movie,  something like that I go.
Yeah.
Well the best educated movie I've seen was uh, The Fox, you know.
In a long time anyway was The Fox.
I thought it was you know- Well, you know it.
It was uh, you know, two women And uh, they were living together on a farm.
You could say, you know, all by theyself.
And you know, running the farm and uh, you know, suspense about the picture to me was I didn't know that they were uh, lesbians or whatever you call them, you know.
And uh,  then uh,  you know, one woman- I guess she got lonely for compassion or sex  and uh,  you know uh, it was this fox  and uh, she wouldn't shoot the fox.
You know the fox was eating up they chickens, but  I guess the reason why she wouldn't shoot it because it was a uh, male fox, you know.
And then this man came, you know, whose grandfather used to live there  and uh,  he fell in love with her  and wanted to marry her,  you know and uh- Then the other girl, you know, didn't want her to marry him.
And as the picture went on  you know, uh-  I remember the other girl say uh,  I loved you longer than, you know,  than he did, and then you know, they were kissing and things.
And that's what really blew my mind, you know.
I didn't know that they were, you know, lesbians, but uh, you know, it was a pretty good picture, you know.
One of the lesbians uh, you know, got killed at the end.
So I took it for granted that she married the man, you know,  that was there.
But it was pretty good.
You know, educated picture like I said.
Yeah, I saw that too.
Oh well that was about Sidney Poitier, and uh, you know, a white girl and uh, they fell in love and things after only knowing each other a short while.
But uh,  back in those days it was,  you know, almost impossible for a  colored man to marry a white woman.
But uh, she was always raised you know, that the color didn't make no difference.
So she didn't think her parents would, you know  would uh, you know,  disagree to that, so uh- And when Sidney Poitier went to meet her parents, you know,  her father you know, thought maybe Sidney Poitier was just, you know somebody trying to  you know, get they money or something.
So he checked upon him.
Found out that he had a college education and you know, pretty smart man.
Had degrees and things.
But they still didn't want to get them married cause they didn't think they could make it, by one of them being white and the other one being colored.
So uh, you know, Sidney Poitier's family came over and met their family  and uh,  you know they were all talking about why they shouldn't get married,  but uh, the two mothers they understood love, you know, and they explained it to the fathers.
And uh,  you know, the fathers at the end all, you know, well, agreed if they were in love, you know  best thing for 'em to do to get married.
So that turned out pretty good at the end.
Yes, sir I seen that one.
Uh, that was about, you know uh,  you know from the beginning a man that got killed and uh, Sidney Poitier was passing through the town,  and they picked him up, you know, because he was a colored man.
And they figured he probably did it and uh, you know, he had a whole lot of money and things, but he was a  detective hisself,  you know.
Uh, take the autopsy on people's bodies and found out what caused the death.
And you know all the white people down there they were surprised because of this, you know.
And uh, as he- You know, he was determining the man's death and told him how he died and when he died and all.
And uh,  you know, the white people down there, they really didn't like him.
And uh,  you know, they tried to uh, you know, kill him at- at one time or another, but uh, you know, he survived and things.
And uh,  he was going to prove, you know, who- who the killer really was.
And uh,  him and the uh-  the uh,  white detective, you know, who was in charge down there, he began to like Sidney Poitier and uh,  then as the picture go on, this white man smacks Sidney Poitier.
And uh, he smacked him back,  and the man said he remember  where the time he'd had him shot for that.
But anyway you know, as the picture goes on  Sidney Poitier,  you know, they found who the killer was, and you know, and  then things get together, and they really you know, start liking each other.
It turned out pretty good, you know.
There are some interesting parts in it.
Violence, you know, like that.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, I-  I think it was, you know, real good because you know it was uh- The way I look at from my point of view it was a colored man  you know, making it, you know, with a white man, you know, who was just as educated as he was.
And you know, he could know like the average you know, white man in the picture.
Thought he was a dummy, you know,  but he knew just as much as him, and you know, he was  even maybe a little smarter, you know.
And he was making y- more money than he was and you know, that's what they couldn't understand.
No, we had a uh,  cat once but uh,  it wasn't never my favorite or nothing like that.
He was just my m- , you know my mother's cat.
No.
No.
I would- I would like to have a German Shepard,  but we can't have one in our house, you know.
We live in an apartment.
Well, you know, I think that uh, you know it's a good breed of an animal,  and it's j- you know, I just like the German shepherd like a Doberman Pinscher m-  I would- wouldn't mind having one of them, but you know, they turn on you, you know.
A German shepherd could turn on you, but uh, it just the most you know, animal I would rather have.
Cause I think that you know, they learn quick, you know, good  watch dogs and things.
Oh, I go to school at Western High.
Oh I take uh, Math, English,  History,  Art  and um,  you know.
But I- And then I  you know, Physical Ed and lunch.
And I get excused from school on a work program.
Yes sir.
Well, you know at this point-  But i- you know it's the year-  I really don't have any favorite subject that I particularly like, you know like,  I just try to-  You know, I just do it  all on average and uh, I don't devote my time to no one subject, which I should, but I don't, you know.
But in the future I plan to, you know, give myself a major that I really interested in.
But I don't now.
Oh well, when school's out for me you know I  come- come to work.
After I get off from work,  I might go down the pool room, shoot a little bit of pool.
Leave there you know.
If I got any homework to do,  I go home and do my homework or  I might go up the playground and shoot you know, f- little basketball til about nine.
Lights go out, and then I- you know, I go home,  look at television or you know, something like that.
When I was younger?
Well, you know when I was younger I went to Catholic school so you might say all the sisters were you know, hard, with you know  and now that I'm a little bit older, you know, I wish all my teacher was like that.
Cause you know, they made you get your work done, so you had to learn something when you leave there.
But like public school, you know, if you don't do your work-  you just don't do it, you know.
And that's the easy way out, and I believe that's why, you know-  half the, you know, teenagers don't make it cause uh,  they don't make 'em make it, you know.
Like when I went to Catholic school, if you didn't bring in your homework,  you stayed after school and did it, you know.
And maybe teacher made you write a thousand times or something.
And that's why, you know, I think when you leave Catholic school, you know a lot more than you do when you leave public school.
It's probably a false alarm or something.
Oh yeah, in the store that had already been burned, yeah.
When that riot start?
Yeah, it was.
Well you know like, uh, they try to teach you, uh, discipline and  like, uh, when I used come to school like fifteen minutes late today,  she'll, you know,  aks me what happened.
I say, I overslept.
She tell me to go to bed earlier tomorrow.
And I might come in, you know, half an hour late tomorrow.
And uh, you know, she'll make me stand up in the corner.
You know, holler at me.
Tell me I should have went to bed earlier or something, you know.
So, you know, the next day I come to school, you know, a little before time, so I wouldn't have to do that, you know.
And like, if you do your work,  and she know you can do it better, and you just hurry up to finish it, she'd tear your paper up and make you do it all over again.
So the next time you take your time.
Make sure, you know, penmenship is neat and all.
You know this is in Catholic school.
In public school you do what you wanna do.
Well whe- I had two favorite teachers when I was in Catholic school.
Uh, sister RD-NAME-2,  and um, mother RD-NAME-4.
You know, my two- Well see sister RD-NAME-2, I had her in the fourth grade,  and I stayed back in the fourth grade, and I had her that year, you know, again.
Then when I went to the fifth, she was my fifth grade teacher, so you know,  she more or less understood me and I understood her.
And you know, we didn't have no trouble together, you know.
Nah, not in Catholic school.
Except for, you know, little things, like, be coming through the line,  I might sneak out and get me a drink of water, you know, but- and, you know, she ain't catch me or something.
Or might ease out the room, you know,  try to get back before she get back, or something like that, you know.
But I never, you know, did any tricks, you know to  make her look bad or nothing like that, you know.
Nah, in Catholic school they didn't, you know, mess with the teachers,  you know.
Nah.
Well you know, you call that your walk man, you know, like the person that you be with all the time.
But we more or less like, you know,  go to school, come home.
You know, like I said, we shoot pool together.
Basketball, party, like, you know, if I don't have nothing to wear today,  you know, I go over his house, and he, you know, lend me some clothes or something.
Then tomorrow, you know, three days later I might lend him a pair of pants.
You know, and, if I ain't got no money,  they might give me two or three dollars, you know.
And if he needs some money I give it to him, you know.
It's called your walk man, you know.
Uh.
Well, like, you know, both of y'all, first of all, have to, you know, like the same things and  what you might say, dig, the same things like- You know, like the same kind of clothes, or  like to party together.
You know, like, maybe on occasion you might, you know, get a little drink or something like that together, you know.
And, you know,  things of that sort.