Well I used to play jump rope  and um,  mumblety peg,    and um,  let's see.
What else?
Uh, Mummy and Daddy.
Uh,  I can't think of any others.
I used to pretend a lot though.
Uh, you take a knife, and you throw it into the ground.
And uh,  you  try to make it stick into the ground.
At least that was my version of it.
No I have not the slightest idea.
I don't know, it's an English game.
Uh, I  think we adopted it from them some years ago or something.
Oh well you just jump up and down, and you turn the rope!
That machine couldn't possibly be on .}  Oh yes, I loved that.
Let's see.
Um,  There was D- I- S- H,  which was Dish, you know.
You just kept uh, saying that until you missed.
And uh,  let's see.
Oh there was one that I used to like but I can't remember all of it so I won't say.
Um- Well uh, first of all, you need either very long rope  that you can double  or  two single ropes.
Then you need uh, one person on one end and another person on the other end.
And they  turn both ropes simultaneously,  you see?
And uh, then someone  runs in,  and they jump up and down  trying to miss both ropes at the same time.
Yes, come to think of it, I did.
Let's see;  engine, engine number nine,  riding down Chicago Line.
If the train should jump the track,  do you want your money back?
That's the way I remember it.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Yes, uh-huh.
Oh dear.
Uh, well,  first of all,  we would have to um-  I don't remember exactly how we did it.
It would be  someone would call, first, second, something like that.
And whoever was last in uh,  calling the places  would be it.
And it would have to hide its face or its eyes.
And uh, the others would run and hide.
And um, we had various hiding places- under the bed, in the closet,  outside, in the basement,  um,  even under cars some people hid.
And uh, then uh,  whoever was found first  by it  would have to replace  him or her  as it.
Not that I can recall.
I'm sure there must have been some.
But uh, it's been so long since I was a child, you know.
Bottle caps.
Uh, I used to collect them.
Oh I don't know.
I guess because they-   Because they reminded me of money,  I think.
Uh, if that's the same as  Giant Step- Is it?
Yes, well that's what we used to play.
And uh, Red Light.
I just remembered another one.
Yeah.
Not very much.
It bores me.
Well I watch Julia so that I can laugh.
I watch uh,  Mod Squad,  so that I can see all the credits to our race.
And then I love uh,  Carol Burnett.
Yes.
Uh-huh.
Um,  now on The Carol Burnett Show, um, I enjoy her uh,  the little spoof on a serie- the daytime o- soap box operas.
Uh-  uh-  What is it?
Um,  As the Stomach Turns she calls it.
Yeah.
Th- this is her version of uh, a soap box opera.
Uh-huh, and she calls it As the Stomach Turns.
And uh- it-  it's a take off on soap box operas, and they uh, you know-  They go overboard and uh- And uh,  in one particular episode, she had this colored fella who knocked on the door.
And um,  she says, oh, how wonderful.
It's a Negro.
And then uh,  he tel- You know, she's treating him very nicely and everything.
So,   he uh-  He pulls out a gun,  and he tells her, give me all your money.
So she says, oh certainly!
I'd be very happy to.
It's so nice to meet someone who isn't a credit to his race.
I enjoyed that one.
Well I remember one that Sammy Davis was on that one.
That was not too long ago.
And um, he played the part of a priest.
A pretty hip priest, you know.
Yes, and uh,  it seemed that he was uh, quite able to uh, relate to the neighborhood children, you know,  in their own language, and uh, he had very good rapport with them.
And someone was trying to kill him because uh, they- He had made a confession to him that he had killed someone.
And that's what the story revolved around.
Yes, isn't that awful.
Yeah.
Yes, I have a pet now.
I've never had a pet before.
Uh, it's a poodle.
Yes.
Oh, it's always doing something funny.
He chews up everything.
He doesn't bark.
He's a male.
And- No, very rarely does he bark.
And uh, he doesn't have a vicious bone in his body.
He has a difficult time distinguishing males  from females.
Uh,  but other than that, he's a normal red blooded American dog.
Mm-hm.
Elementary school, let's see.
I hated my first grade teacher.
I liked my second grade teacher.
I hated my third grade teacher.
And I despised my sixth grade teacher.
Um- Well I had a pretty nice teacher in those grades.
Yes.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I did.
But uh, you only remember the extremes I think.
Uh, when?
Which school?
Elementary school?
Um,  well  the standard Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, uh-  I liked History best.
I hated Geography.
In elementary school?
Mm-   That's a very good question.
Um,  I guess whatever other kids do now.
We weren't that much different I don't guess, except that we didn't rob any stores or anything like that.
No.
I went right home after school.
That was a must.
Well um,  after battling with my mother about changing my clothes,  um,  I usually did what the boys did.
I'd ride bicycles,  uh, climb trees,  skate, yeah.
Yeah, this was my pack, you know.
Yes.
I had one that called us names and everything.
That was my sixth grade teacher.
Mm-hm.
Oh uh,  she was a shrew.
That's what she was.
Um,  actually, she was a pretty poor excuse for a teacher if you want to know the truth about it.
Um,  her whole attitude  toward the children was negative  completely.
You would think that she hated kids.
And uh, she had her preferences.
Um,    those who were fairer, she was uh-  fair in complexion- she liked a little better than she did the darker ones.
And they  fared a lot better in her classroom.
Mm-hm.
Uh, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
I had her the second half of the sixth grade because I moved.
And uh,  she was a gem.
She really was.
She was- sh-   Well she was a little uh, sensitive  for teaching I think because she would cry at the drop of a hat.
But-  But she was a beautiful woman, and she was really interested in the children.
So I remember her most of all, I think.
Oh good heavens, no.
I think she was slightly psychotic, if you want to know the truth about it.
But as I said, I think she just didn't particularly care for children.
That was her.
Not that I can remember.
I can't remember any particular tricks that were played  on any teachers.
I think I prefer high school  because um,   I think I didn't start liking school until high school  really.
And um,  I just found that whole experience quite pleasurable.
And I started taking- Well actually, I started taking a foreign language in the eighth grade,  but I really got into it  in high school.
And uh, I really enjoyed it.
I took Spanish.
And I became more active in uh- uh-  thespian.
So um,  I enjoyed that.
In elementary school?
No.
Mm-mm.
We weren't that progressive.
No.
Not really.
I uh,  I have several circles of friends.
I'll put it that way.
Mm-hm.
Well sometimes we go to parties.
Um,  uh, let's see.
We go to the movie, um,  sometimes we go to cultural functions.
If we find the time.
Listen to music  of various types.
Mm-hm.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I have.
The Killing of Sister George.
Well uh, um, it was a story.
It was a little confusing in the beginning,  but it was more or less about um,  an actress-  Thank you-  who um,  had played a certain part so long  that uh,  she had started to actually live the part  in a sense.
She actually thought that she was this character that she portrayed, and then, too, she had a little problem too.
She was homosexual.
And um,  she was a very  uninhibited  person,  and uh, I think the story more or less was trying to show um-  Well the character that she played was Sister George.
That was her name.
And uh, she had taken on the character of this person to such an extent that uh, they even called her  in uh-  at the studio, they called her George.
Well this  served for dual purposes.
But uh,  it showed her trials and tribulations at being canceled as this character that she had come so to love.
And it showed that at the time that she lost uh, her part as Sister George, she lost just about everything that she had been striving for.
Yes I enjoyed it.
It was quite amusing.
Quite amusing.
No,  uh,  i- even then I had uh,  different circles of friends.
In other words, one day I may be with uh,   say the people who lived in my immediate area.
And then another day I might be with uh,  people that I- I knew from school or people that I had met through other people.
And uh,  sometimes the groups would merge,  but not uh,  very often.
Well uh,  one group was a little wilder than the other.
Uh,  one group went in for more cultural activities like going to a nice concert or um,   a ballet or something like that.
And if I was in a mood for that, then uh, I'd be with them.
If I was in a mood for  partying,  I had another circle of friends.
So it would depend on what mood I was in as to which group I was with at any given time.
Uh, in a sense, yes.
But then there were cliques within the neighborhood as uh,  within schools or anywhere else.
So.
But for the most part, they stuck together as a neighborhood.
Uh, yes.
Spanish.
Um,  two  that I can think of.
They're bilingual, too.
Yes, me.
Well uh,  without sounding immodest, uh-  I am very understanding, and I have certain insights into things that uh,  people usually find helpful in certain s- situations.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  as I said, because um,  most people tend to think that I have  a little insight uh, into matters dealing with life in general.
And they seem to- They seem to pay attention to what I say, be it right or wrong.
So I- I- I don't really know why, but that- that's just my idea of it.
Yes,  quite a bit.
Mm-hm.
Oh, I wouldn't dare divulge any secrets.
Now some of my friends might listen to this and uh, recognize themselves.
What do you mean, when I was younger?
Uh, say elementary school age?
Oh.
Well, as far as I was concerned, they really didn't have to do anything except be themselves,  and if I didn't like what they were then uh, I would act accordingly.
But I can honestly say I don't I've ever discriminated  against anyone because of any uh,  physical or  mental  uh,  problems that uh- Well at least that I viewed as problems because I thought that everyone had to uh, do his own thing, you know.
I've always felt this way, but now I'm glad I'm in style.
Well um,  until I entered uh-  Well uh,  in my close group,  mostly black kids  um,    of, I would say,  I suppose lower middle class.
Uh,  f- Uh, financially speaking, lower middle class.
Um,  I guess you found the same type of uh,  kids that you would find in any uh, socioeconomic group.
Um,  we had some who were very easy to get along with,  uh, those who were very hard to get along with.
And uh,   we had-  But uh, truthfully speaking, uh,  when I think about it, most of my  friends were  those who were interested in uh,  I might say the better things in life.
I don't know whether that was purely accident or what  because most of my friends did go to college.
And uh, most of them did finish.
Yes.
Well, no.
No,  I was about to say that uh,  I would have changed    the route  that I took,  as far as uh, going to  college was concerned.
I went to  uh, a college here in the city, and I think uh, the only thing about that that I would change  would be that I would have gone out of town.
But I don't think I would exchange the experi- the life experiences  that  I probably would have missed  by continuing straight through school.
Yes, uh-huh.
Well uh,   I plan to teach the slow learner for awhile, and then after that I'm not quite sure because there's so many things that I am interested in  as far as helping the so called  underprivileged child.
And uh,  I think um,  I have a sort of idea of overturning the system, which I probably will have to get out of my mind.
You know.
But I- I just feel that it's necessary, and I feel that there is nothing, absolutely nothing that can be done  until the entire educational system in Washington DC is completely destroyed and rebuilt.
Now that may sound- That may sound rather extreme.
But um,  this is just the way I feel.
This is purely personal uh, because I have been on both sides of the fence I know exactly what goes on  in the public schools here in the DC- in DC.
Um,  from the standpoint of a student as well as that uh, of an insider in quotes.
Well I fluctuated um, back and forth between wanting to be a teacher and a nurse.
Then um,   I decided when I got older that both positions were confining.
I needed something that I could move around in.
And uh,  when I was in high school, I did volunteer work at RD-WORK-2's Hospital.
And um,  this was more or less to uh,    find out whether um,  I could make it as a nurse because this had become pretty strong by the time I'd reached high school- my desire to become a nurse.
And um,  I think I'll always wonder whether I did the right thing by n-  uh, not going into nursing.
Yeah, I've- I've had a little difficulty in- anyway with that too.
Paperwork.
No, well truthfully speaking, um,  my job uh,  is basically one of  uh,  keeping  a child in school.
Supposedly at all costs.
Uh, we have some children who stay out of school because um,    they don't have proper clothing  to wear.
We have some who stay out of school because they hate the teachers.
We have uh,  some who stay out of school because they find more interesting st-  things- more interesting things in the street to do.
And I think all this revolves around motivation.
True, and this comes from the home.
So,  we try to work with the families  as well as working with the child in school.
And um- Yes, it could be a lot better uh, if it were not for the system holding it back.
This is another reason why I say the system needs to be destroyed.
Um,  but I think uh, the aims of the program  are very good.
And uh, as long as we have people who  um, are understanding, or at least who attempt to understand the problems that these kids have,  the program will be a success.
Um,  some people have no- As a matter of fact,  the majority of the people have no idea what these kids go through before they even get to school.
Some of them uh, have been up all night.
Some of them have no place to sleep period.
Some of them have uh, um,  no food to eat.
And if it were not for the free lunches at school, and the free breakfasts, they would have nothing to eat all day long.
And it's pretty difficult for a child to learn  um,  in a um,  classroom situation, as it is here,  or anywhere else for that matter, on an empty stomach.
Uh, this is one of man's basic needs- food.
And you'd be surprised at how many children  don't  have the bare necessities as far as food is concerned.
Christmas?
Or any holiday?
Well um,  in different ways.
Um,  whatever  we choose to do on a holiday, we usually do as a- as a family group, which is also, getting back to the other subject, rare  among uh,  most of the children that I deal with every day.
Because there is no real uh, sense of family grouping.
But um,  now  uh, say Christmas day  we always spend together.
The rest of the holiday we might do  whatever we choose to do.
Easter Sunday,  we spend together.
Um,  what other holiday is there?
E- Even Halloween!
You know, we spend together.
Let's see.
Um,  I think a million dollars.
Yeah.
But uh, being realistic um- What do I want for Christmas this year?
I think I might like a car.
Because-  Yes.
You know, that- that's probably uh, more attainable than a million dollars right now.
But um,  I need one for my work  because um,  we have to travel back and forth, particularly at the school that I'm working.
Um,  the children live  in various  areas of the city, which means that it's difficult to get transportation back and forth.
Uh,  best Christmas present that I ever got.
I really can't remember.
Maybe none of them really impressed me that much.
Yeah, I'm sure they would.
Yes.
But I'm not gonna tell you about it.
Well I'll tell you about one of them.
Um,   this summer I was in an automobile accident uh, coming back from uh-  coming back from Ohio.
Um,  a man side swiped the car on the highway.
Um,  and uh,  what happened?
Oh,  uh, the driver swerved  to avoid hitting the car,  and um,  we hit the uh-  They call them medians  or something, in the middle of the highway.
And this- At the uh, s- rate of speed at  the car was going,  um,  it turned it a-  it turned it around completely.
And uh, the car flipped on the other side of the uh, median.
And we were going back in the way that we came on the wrong side of the highway .
And there was a  ten ton truck bearing down on us you know.
But it just so happened that uh, there was no car in the outside lane and the truck swerved and missed us.
But otherwise we would have been crushed.
I don't know whether I can totally agree with that because I feel that uh, we  make  some of the things happen to us  that happen  to us.
And um,  I don't know.
I- I- I think I'm a little divided on this point really  because in a sense I believe in predestiny and then in another sense I don't.
Or I don't believe in it completely, I'll say that.
Because I think I have been in some situations that I could have avoided  by acting in another manner.
So.