Well,  played Hide and Go Seek  and played  baseball  and jump rope  and uh,  cooking,  playhouse,  mm, cooking.
And I loved to dress up in my mother's old clothes , shoes.
All that, and uh,  I loved to imitate people,  shouting at churches on Sundays and things like that.
Well, uh, be  two or three whatever,  and one would hide, count up to  ten  and go hide, and then you  ready or not, hear I come!
and we'd go looking for each other like that.
Mm-hm.
Same as they do now.
Oh no, I just put on old long dress and her high heel shoes, and tie a rag on my head and make a big bowl of hair back there and set a old hat up there.
And I'd like- Just like she would do it on Sunday when she was going to church.
So- Oh, well people that sang or the way people walk or laugh or talk.
All those kind of things.
Well the way we played it,  uh,  whoever get caught first,  that was the one was it.
Like you know there'd be three or four, is- all be running different directions, and whoever you catch first, well you say you're it.
That's the way we played it.
Mm-hm.
Now?
Yes, I do.
Well I like my s- uh, stories, such as uh,  Edge of Night, As the World Turn  and uh, Search for Tomorrow  and different ones like this.
Oh, well, uh,  they kidnapped uh,  Mike's daughter  Lorianne, and they are holding her for ranso- Not to say ransom, but they're holding her for uh,  a secret paper that Mike have.
And these uh, syndicates wants  him to turn it over to them, and he uh, so far has refused to do it, and they got her hid out.
Oh, yeah, that's uh, the Governor's daughter, uh, Nicola.
She's the- Trying to get Mike to  you know, pay attention to her, but so far he don't know that, and she's not  making much time there.
But- No, he did not.
She modeled that coat.
She tried to get him to buy it for his wife, Nancy.
And she modeled it for Mike.
And Capice's nurse,  Louise Capice's nurse,  saw Nicole with the coat,  and uh, modeling it for Mike.
And she goes and tells  uh- uh- Louise that Mike was buying this- this coat for Nicole.
But it was not true.
She was just modeling it  for Mike  but she didn't buy it- He didn't buy it for her.
Yes, Search for Tomorrow, and Secret Storm, and- Well you know Amy, and Pauls is supposed to be  well separate you know?
So she's sign- He's signed the papers already, but uh,  she can't go for the divorce yet because she would see Well that was Paul Britton's m- uh, wife, you know, and he was in love with Belle, this other girl that came.
So that's who he's leaving Amy for-  For Belle.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah?
Well I never watched uh, Another World because I- I've been following these stories so long I hate to miss any of them, you know?
But it's a good story I hear.
G- the Other World.
It's a- it's a very good story.
No, it's been quite sometime since I've been to a movie.
No.
The last one I saw-  I can't remember right now.
I really can't.
No, I didn't see that.
No.
No.
Yes I do.
I like all pets.
Well, I don't know.
Just  didn't bother buy me one.
But I like 'em though.
Well I like a c- a cat  better than I do a dog.
But I like all of 'em, but I like- for my choice would be a cat.
I don't know.
I just like 'em cause they follow around in the house behind you.
I just like 'em.
Cause I didn't go to high school at all.
Well I- Well I really wouldn't know because at the- That time, when I was going to school,  I was schooled in group no higher than fifth grade.
That was way back a long time ago of course, you know.
So I wouldn't know anything about the junior high at all.
Yes, just mostly as the children do now.
They's-  At recess they play as I said, ball games, uh,  Hide and Go Seek.
Uh, different little things like that.
Mm-hm.
No, but I had uh- some that was very mean.
I'll tell you that.
Oh,  they couldn't of  just whispered to one another.
You couldn't uh,  look at one another, y-  Oh boy, loved to whip a lots.
They whipped children back in my day.
Yeah.
Switches!
Go out there in the woods and get switches and- and- and whip you in your hand, uh, around your legs, uh, like that.
That's right.
So you know that was quite some time ago.
Cause they don't whip children now, you know.
Mm-hm.
I know.
Well honey, I got whipped a many time.
If you- missed two words of spelling,  I didn't uh, come up with your reading as you should,  you got a whipping for that.
You should do better tomorrow.
If you didn't, you'd get it right back again.
Believe me.
Well yes, it was  the woman teacher.
She was the most kindest one that I've ever had.
Her name was Miss RD-NAME-3.
I never will forget it.
She was very kind.
She tried to learn the girls to do uh,  needle work and things like that.
She was the nicest one I've ever had.
But some of the rest of 'em was  mean.
Well, I don't know  why things change so much, but I c- I really don't know because  the children nowadays, they wouldn't uh,  stand for that like we did because that was the systems at that time, and we  uh, knowed better than to be rude to the teacher.
See what I mean?
So we- we take what they put on us.
And then if they got too  overbearing- If our parents felt they was too overbearing,  well then they would come and have a talk with the teacher.
But still that didn't eliminate the whippings.
Believe me.
So, the children nowadays, they wouldn't stand for that now, you know.
Oh yes.
That was it.
Oh yes.
Uh, his name was  RD-NAME-6  Oh I hated him, and this- and he forever was teaching.
It just seem like it-  The school just- It just was built for him to teach,  year after year.
Year after year.
Oh yes, I hated him.
Oh he was so mean.
He's so- He loved to  whip and he was very prejudice  because he was real fair and a real doll child.
Honey, I have seen him.
I'm telling you the truth.
I would cry for that child.
He w- he was very nasty.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
He was very much so.
But the rest of 'em, well uh, I could make out with them, you know.
But he was about the worst there was of all.
Yes.
Yes-  Yes- Well no, uh, RD-NAME-3 I never did uh,  do too much of uh,  going around with a group.
I mostly was a loner,  and still am today.
A loner.
Mostly.
No, just  church,  S- Sunday schools and things like that.
That's- that was the club.
Mm-hm.
No.
I didn't at that time, no.
Well,  no, I don't uh,  can't think of any.
Oh.
No.
Mm-hm.
No.
It wasn't like that then.
It was strictly uh, all colored school and all whites, you know what I mean?
Uh-huh.
Well, I always wanted to uh- uh- wanted to-  a good education,  and I- I- I always  liked  English.
And if- if I would have- I believe  if I would have had the privilege, that's what I would have been, an English teacher.
I don't know why but I- That's my favorite subject.
I'd always loved English.
Although I didn't have the privilege to get it, but  that was my favorite.
I was just spoke- Uh, spoke to my son about that the other day.
I said, If I'd'a had the privilege  at uh, some of the children got today  I says, English would have been my favorite subject.
Yeah?!
Do- What do I do?
Oh well, for that matter, I'm practically doing something all the time.
I have to keep busy.
I can't just sit by idle handed very much.
I'm uh, finding something to do, washing or  something in the house all the time.
I just can't hold my hands.
Very busy all day long, unless, you know I'm  sick or something.
Well, I don't know.
I'm very sorry that it happened, I know that, but uh,  I just can't understand  too much about it.
But I hope it never happen again I'll tell you that.
Well I really would like to see it.
I really would.
I think that they should.
That's the way I feel about it.
I would be very glad.
Fact indeed, when they was uh, asking to write in, you know-  uh, I don't know if they did here, but in Jersey they did, you know.
They has announced it to write in  if uh- Should his  birthday be set aside for holiday.
So, I said yes, I was all for it because  he was a wonderful man.
And I think that he should be honored among  uh, this younger generation that's coming up.
That's the way I feel about it.
Oh, not anything particular.
I just  takes it easy.
Uh,  holidays  hardly ever es- excite me.
Long at time of going out You know what I mean.
Well yes.
Yes, I like- But it very seldom happens that way with me though because  you know, my family's all scattered.
We very seldom get together.
After Mother passed, we don't uh,  really have uh,  special holiday because when she was living, see we would all try to  you know, go and be with her.
But since then, it's just another day, you know, we have speaking.
Mm-hm.
No, I can't.
But I remember when I-   I remember when-  how mad I got when I caught up with Sandy.
I sure can remember that!
But I don't remember the best one, but I remember the last one.
Because I wanted a doll.
And uh, Sandy didn't bring me no doll.
And uh,    I was laying there watching for Sandy, peeking out from under the covers.
So my grandmother- had her over for Christmas.
I don't know if this should be on here or not, but you- you asked for it.
So uh ,  she had a apron on.
She had a apron filled with candy and nuts, and I was laying there peeping out from under the cover looking at her.
She p- I had a little uh,  very small  chest.
That's what she'd fill up for me for Christmas.
So I looked.
She didn't put the- the doll in there!
But I was afraid to move because I know that she knowed I was looking at her, she would whip me.
So I say, well I'm going to lay right quiet,  and after a while I'll get up,  go see what Santa brought.
And I goes looking for my doll but nothing in there but nuts and fruits and candy and oh was I hurt.
Oh I cried.
And I laid Sandy Claus out, yet I was looking at her, you know.
But I had to say Sandy because if I were to say, you did it!, I know what I would have got.
So I said, Sandy didn't- Ol' Sandy didn't bring me my doll;  I don't want these old fruits and candies.
That's the last Christ- I mean, you know what I mean.
As a- as a child.
And I never will forget it.
And she laughed and she cried.
She says, well you know why he didn't bring, because you watched Sandy; that's why he didn't- And I said, well he didn't know I was watching!
Yeah, yeah.
That was my last uh,  good Christmas.
Uh, no.
I can't remember that- nothing like that now.
No, because I'm not going to go out there that very far.
Because I'm afraid of water.
Well no, I've never been one like that.
Thank God.
Oh yes, I've dreamed of different accidents.
Of falling or something like that.
But uh,  not real.
You know what I mean.
Well I don't know, RD-NAME-3, sometimes I believe that  some things can- We can avoid.
Some things.
And there is some things that  perhaps maybe we can't just -  can't help but  a lot of things that I do believe can be avoided.
In being careful.
I really do.
I- I- I- That's right.
That's my belief.