My name is RD-NAME-5.
Kickball.
We,  the g-  the way we we play it,  we play  girls against the boys.
And we have three bases,  and we have to run to each one of them.
And the one,  um,    if they catch the ball,  well we out, or they hit us with the ball, we out.
Boys against the girls, we don't, we don't count.
They play some more, but I don't play no more.
That's all I like to play.
No, we just play records.
Um  Always Together, Say it Loud, I'm Black and I'm Proud and    Private Number  and  Don't be Afraid.
Play some  chasing and tag.
We,  if,  we chase a person,  and if we catch 'em,  we take 'em.
Throw 'em,  make like we gonna the uh,  trash can.
Like it's  it's something like  uh  the devil.
We have the um,  it have to be a door  and a person.
And we take a person to be the door  and the devil.
So we knock on the door and they aks us what kind of pie we want,  and the people who  they already named the pie,  they run after him.
They have to pay for the pie first.
Mm-hm, in the hand like  like if it had twenty five cent, put five ten fifteen twenty in his hand.
And then if,  and then the pie take him running.
The devil chase after  And if you don't chase- if you don't catch 'em,  well they be throwing it to the su- su- a sugar ball and if you be k- caught  they be throwing you to the trash can.
Racing.
With beer cans.
We'd take an um,  girls being in line and the boys being in line,  we'd take an  put the can up  um  at the corner, then we run back and um  go get 'em.
We gotta tag the person hanging.
If we don't tag the person hanging, we out.
We sang uh  blue bird  um     we taking turn the rope,  and we s-  and we say  I like coffee and I like tea.
I like the boys and boys like me, and then we say, yes or no,  and whatever we stop on that's where um,  well who we,  that, if we like him or not.
No, we just count.
No We  um    we take and go to the corner,  and um  and somebody be up,  like up the street,  and we be down at the next corner.
And we s-, and then they say,  like they call a person and they say  um, Ruth, um  take  three baby steps, then they say  Mother may I?
Then sometime she say no, she say well.
And she said take giant steps.
And  um   brother  Stuff like that.
If-    um  we taking um  uh Mm-hm.
Like if we say Simon Says,  we do it but,  if-  if we say um I said,  and if we do it, well we out.
But if we say,  if they say Simon Say put your hands up, we do it, and if they-  I say put my hand down  um  you'll be out.
That's the way we play it.
Uh-huh.
No.
They taken  Like um,  you- we pick one person like a boy or a girl,  and then  they find her, they got-  the other person gotta help find the other p-  other ones.
They wanted to.
We say-  no.
We put our feets in  and the first one who um,    the first one who um  like you say eenie meenie miney moe  and they said  um, Tom was in the tree, and he  ts-  um  jumped out,  what color was his blood?
We say red.
Well,  we- we count all the way to red.
R-E-D.
And the person who get the last one be first.
Mm, when-  we, when we play Hide and Go Seek, we say,  my mother and your mother was hanging up the clothes.
My mother sock your mother in the nose.
You ready or not, here I come.
Not,  not can I think of.
I like  The Big Valley  and The Lucy Show.
And    Uh f- Family Affair and  that's mostly all I like.
Cowboy.
It's uh  it's a family.
It's three boys, one of 'em named Nick,  one of 'em named..
I don't know the rest of the names.
And they got a sister named Audrey,  and a mother named Barbara.
And    It's-  it's something like- it's a cowboy picture,  and uh, one of the brothers are a lawyer,  and the other one are just  plain cowboys.
No, they try to help  other peoples.
Ah, yeah.
When they blamed one of the Barkley's that he killed  a lady  um, that he took and strangle her  with her uh    her stocking.
And um, they found out who did it,  and they helped this other man by telling the truth.
That he didn't do that blame to a person.
Like  four o'clock movies, or?
No I don't watch 'em, I be outside.
I go to the store,  buy me a hamburger, and then I go back  and uh  on the second fl-  on- on the third floor,  and go in a h- a girl house and play some records.
And then sometimes we go on Twelfth and T.
A friend.
Some friends.
We play records over there and have dances.
To Sir, With Love.
Sydney Poitier and uh,    he was a teacher,  and, it was white peo-  it was white girls and white boys in his room.
I don't guess they liked him,  um, at the beginning.
And w- and uh    and this other boy he used to,  he used to um bring pictures and stuff in school.
And when Sydney Poitier called him to do something,  he be having um,  um  pictures in his lap  of girls.
And one morning he came to school, and they put something in the um   in a stove, something like a stove.
Wooden stove.
And uh  it's spread around  it c-  and um he start coughing.
He pull out the window,  and he made all the children go out the room.
And then it- and then it- almost at the end, when he was getting ready to leave,  they was crying.
And they was, and then this  girl she sing To Sir, with Love.
Guess Who Coming to Dinner.
Sydney Poitier  he went and murdered this  white girl,  and um  his m-  and um-  his mother um,  his mother well she was colored, and he was colored.
And his mother was  wanted  know  um, wanted to see the girl  and see was he colored-  s-  it's- and she's seen her  sh-  uh, her face drew up.
And um    they didn't get married Maybe  they were tryna say that  they ain't want no white pe-  white or colored people in they family.
Um,    What's the guy-  that girl name?
Her mother and her father.
Because they was colored I think.
Guess.
Prob- I seen some but I forgot.
Dog.
Um    Wolf.
I don't know.
My cousin named her.
No, he died.
new morning.
We had-  my brother and I were washing him down in the basement,  and he took and ran out the back door  and he caught the new morning, and they took him to the dog pound, and they killed him.
No, I was scared of him.
Cause he was kind of big.
My cousin gave it to us.
He was trained a little bit.
Like  tell him to sit down, he sit.
That's all he do.
No, he didn't do nothing.
But if you throw a stick, he go get it,  but he gonna smell it, but he won't bring it back.
I don't know.
I don't like it.
My teacher mean.
Cause we be mean to her.
Cause  she keep, she always telling me to do something, and I don't want to do it.
She tell me read.
I don't read.
And another girl do the same thing.
And but she always  tell me  I should read,  and she don't never say nothing to the other girl.
So I don't read.
I ain't that mean.
She alway-  when she talking to another person, she always looking at me, and I's asking,  I-  I aks her, did I-  I said,  she was  telling us,  another girl was saying the principal was mean,  and she say  the principal ain't mean.
She start looking at me, I say I ain't say nothing.
She teach us  social study  and reading  and  health, and uh  S-  That's-  that's all we  be in  that's our home room.
We change classes.
We go to the English, math, and  and science,  and physical education, and music, and art.
Mm-mm.
Principal too.
Spelling and English.
I don't know.
Um, um.
Ms.
RD-NAME-2 my English teacher,  and Ms.
uh..
RD-NAME-2 is my, uh  spelling teacher.
I just like it.
And my math too.
Fractions.
Um    I forgot the word.
Get home.
No, but on Thursdays I go to a community club at six o'clock.
Six.
We do work,  and we have something to drink and have something to eat.
And we have parties at church.
And we have teachers  that teach with us.
And we have any homework, we bring it down there,  and she'll show us how to do it.
We have Spelling  for-  for Monday  until  Thurs-  but Friday we have our test.
We have to look up words and like two meanings or three,  and use 'em in a sentence  divide 'em up  and stuff like that.
Then we have our test on Friday.
Alright, I get ninety all- mostly all the time.
I do my math in school.
Community club.
We go down  in the basement where they play,  where the boys  play basketball at.
They stop playing basketball, and they play records, and we dance until ten or nine o'clock.
Then we go home.
No,  if she holler at me, I'm'a holler back.
When she talk to some more girls in that room,  it's me,  a girl named Ruth and Lavern.
And then Tom.
We're the worstest ones.
We're always talking out and laughing loud.
Mm- no.
Be quiet.
I do my work, but I talk.
And uh  we talk out loud  and laugh out loud.
And met with other peoples in the room,  and  not,  but, it's not me but it's  some of the girls m-  Lavern and Carl.
It's, we got some white and some Chinese children in our room.
And they meddle with them.
They call him Pinocchio eye.
I don't know.
They alright.
No I don't meddle with 'em no m- I meddle with 'em last year and now I don't.
Just stop,  and we sing.
And we, we always singing  um  we sing it  real loud.
We say, say it Loud.
I'm Black, and I'm Proud.
We sing it all in the room, and when the teacher get after us sometimes she make us  go in the hall  or go in the cloak room.
And  so we take a walk through the halls  til the bell ring then we go home.
I don't know.
For the singing.
This girl was and Lavern was singing Private Number today and she got after her for singing that.
No.
No.
They do it anyway.
Why?
Learn, get an education.
Maybe  if I haven't  I talking outloud and laughing  and singing.
That's what our teacher aks for .
Um,  um,  how you gonna sing and laugh and talk without doing your work?
I do both.
What color?
They ain't tell us yet.
I always get a Bad in Behaving.
I get a A or a B,  or a C.
Never got a F.
But in Behaving, I got a U.
Mm-hm.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
No, her name ain't Miss RD-NAME-2  You talking about this year?
Or?
Miss RD-NAME-2 Third.
She was nice.
She let us have parties, like when Halloween come.
Or  like  Thanksgiving.
We had a party on Thanksgiving.
Well  when Christmas almost here, we had one then.
The one this year.
Miss RD-NAME-1.
Social Study.
She always fussing.
Like if she be talking to somebody else, and always butting in.
And that's why  she always fussing.
She's talked to me about  thirty minute  and I get tired, I turn my face.
I put some paper on my face.
I don't like  she don't She don't never give nobody no party.
We ain't have no party for no Halloween.
Talking about she don't give no party until we behave.
No.
Mm- we get  we g- we get- we have to go on the um  go through the cloak room to go  to get our coats, and we stand in line in there.
And the teacher be in the hall,  and if a girl always,  we always had to sing a song  in the morning time.
Like uh it be on a record player,  and she put it on there.
and th- when the teacher go out the room, the girl take and-  three o'clock the bell ring, the girl take and um  put the record on there, start it playing and leave it running.
And teacher aks who did it, nobody don't say nothing.
Me?
I ain't play nothing-.
Like if um,  uh,  um, she always have a um  this-  it's uh,  it's a heavy thing on her desk.
It's made out of iron.
Real heavy.
We always take it,  and roll it under the table, and she aks where's it at?
Nobody don't say nothing.
When the janitor coming in, sweep the floors, she find it under there.
Mm.
No.
Sixth.
No.
Name 'em?
Maxi-    Maxine,  and May Gladys and Brenda  and RD-NAME-5,  RD-NAME-3  and Mary,  and Ruth and  and RD-NAME-3 Cause we always go riding.
Uh, Her boyfriend Carl.
One of 'em.
Girl name Brenda.
Ride in her car on Fridays and Saturdays.
They always having parties and dances.
Mm  seventeen.
I don't know.
Yes.
Cause I like her.
RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-3 and the rest of the girls.
Some of 'em  fourteen and thirteen.
And B-  and, and it's one of 'em.
Another one's seventeen.
Let's see.
Me,  I ain't count myself, count Maxine,  May Gladdis, Elizabeth,  Brenda,  Carl, Richard, Barbara  and Mary and Ginny and Ruth see, nine.
Three.
That's Barbara  and RD-NAME-3  and    Brenda.
All three of them, seventeen.
Yes, we live in the same apartment building.
May Gladdis and Ruthie  and  live on the second, and Elizabeth live on the second.
And Maxine and Brenda live on the th- first.
And um  c-  and Barbara l- and Barbara and Mary live on the second  too.
RD-NAME-3 live on the third.
And uh  Jun-  um, Ruthie live on the second.
We go to the uh,      we go to the movies sometime, at  at um  eight thirty or seven.
And we come home at it-  when it's over.
I think at eleven.
Mm, I don't know.
Brenda  and Elizabeth.
Um  they just pick them.
I don't-  maybe because  I don't-  I ain't- I don't know.
No.
Brenda.
Drink.
Drink.
Liquor and beer.
Yes.
Yes.
I get dizzy.
All us put in together.
And  then we buy it about-  we buy about  a pint.
We, we send a boy, her boyfriend  to the store, and he get it.
and we give him some.
But we don't tell no more boys,  cause they gonna want some.
We go on  mus-  It's-  it's a um,  two mustang.
It's a blue one,  and a  red and white one.
We go in there.
And the boys go in,  a boy,  the boys go in my brother and them car.
But they don't go with us.
Yeah.
And they spike the liquor with- with  soda, sometimes with Kool-aid.
Well when it with Kool-aid, it strong  than with punch.
Mostly on Fridays and Saturdays.
Went to a party Friday.
It was alright.
Drink  and boys.
Hm?
Mm-hm.
No.
What's he like?
He cute to me, and  he kind of tall.
He alright.
Sixteen.
Mm-hm.
Might wanna be a maid.
No, I was gonna  um, go to college  and be a teacher, but I change my mind.
I don't want be no teacher.
Maybe, I like to hit children,  and if I hit 'em, they probably gonna get their mother.
Cause I can cook, clean up, and if they have any children, I help them with their homework or something like that.
Like on Hazel.
Mm-hm.
Mm, no.
No- No, I don't want no family, but I don't want to live with them.
But on a uh  like on a Monday,  like on a um  Friday or Saturday,  I'd rather be off  and go visit s- you know like my cousin or somebody and spend the night with them and my friends.
Um Not too good.
I didn't like the mopping and wash the dishes.
I like to clean up.
Much as I can-  much as I can get.
I don't know.
No.
No.
No.
Maybe about  in the twelfth,  I'm going to college.
I just wanna be a maid.
When I want more.
Clothes,  money.
I don't know.
Buy me  the clothes that in style, and a um,    buy me a car and a house and furniture.
Keep my house neat and clean.
Mm, maybe about  ten thousand.
Nah,  I guess round about  S-  in the billions.
Go visit my friends and like,  I don't know,  like on Thanksgiving I go somebody else house and eat.
And I come home and  eat.
Oh my cousin or my friend house.
Cause she had company,  and I don't want eat the way I want.
I mean  I ain't gonna eat the way I wanna eat.
I might want a lot of food, and I was ashamed to get it.
Bashful.
Not in front of a whole lot of peoples and grown ups.
My mother, my father, my sister, my brothers.
I have three brothers,  and two sisters.
I don't never stay at home.
Skates and clothes and boots.
Coats.
Around two.
Might get two.
Leather.
Black,  black and brown.
Can't,  mm,  I don't know.
Forgot.
Easy Bake Oven.
And some- And some skates.
And I want skates this year.
Cause I lost my other ones.
I had-  I got roller skating  and the other kind of skate.
Mm.
No.
You know, like you ride- rode um  in the street or the sidewalk or something, when you be skating.
Them the kind I want this year.
I still got my roller skates.
Mm- I call roller skates like you ride on ice or something like that.
Um like they shiny and gold,  something like that.
And uh  they have  two wheels in the back,  and  two in the front.
This- they made under the bottom like roller skate, but they're you know, they don't have no long boots.
Not with them long things come up here, they be short down there.
On ice.
Money.
Twenty-five.
Spend it.
Drinks,  and I bought me some shoes.
Gave some to my friend.
I loan one of my friend five dollars.
They paying me back.
Some loafers.
No.