Hide and Seek,    uh,  tag,  rope,  bingo,  jacks, a-  stuff like that.
Um, one person be it,  and to find out whoever who- who's it or not,  you um-  everybody put in their foot.
And you say a little rhyme.
And then, the person- last one is it.
And all the rest of 'em- he hides his-  he or she hides her face,    and um-  and the rest of 'em go- They hide,  and you have to find 'em.
And you would say the first one you find is it or the second or the last.
L-  Like for instance, Tarzan was in the tree, and then uh,   Tarzan was in the tree, and he fell out.
What color was his blood?
And they would say a color, like red,  R - E - D spells the word red.
Last- you know, the one who's it.
Nope.
Well, I don't have any favorites,  but I like um,    know l-  Dark Shadows, and um, The Family Affair and Bewitch.
And That Girl.
It's about these two- the- two twins named um, Buffy-  Buffy and Jody.
Jody is the girl, and Buffy- No, Jody is the boy, and Buffy is the girl.
And then they have a- uh- s- another big sister,  and I th-  think- I forgot her name.
Yes!
It's a comedy like, it's- something's always happening around the house.
And this- the uh- Buffy always talks to  the doll,  her doll baby,  like it's gonna say something back.
Oh,   that's uh,  a comedy, too.
You know, it-  it b- It about- It's about be- It's about this witch that married this mortal,  and she was a witch, and she married a h- um-  You know, a person   like a human being?
A- And, they call it mortals, and um,  and she had this baby  by the mortal, and   you know, the baby was a witch, too.
Ks- And,  um,  her- The people in her family always doing something to the mortal,  her husband,  making him into other things.
Oh like,  Thursday night movies, something?
Beach Party and Ski Party.
Well, Ski Party was last night.
It was about um,    these uh, children  for the uh, they were g- came home from- on vacation, and they went to the uh, party.
I mean to the uh, beach,  and they had a ski party,  where they was skiing and stuff.
They went to a beach house.
It was winter.
And um,  you know,  they- they just played around.
And they- they play records and dance, had coffee and stuff.
And then James Brown came into the scene,  came to the coffee house, and he sung one song for them.
He sung, I Got You,  and then he left,  and it was a comedy, too.
And at the end, all of 'em was singing.
And they left,  you know, they went on home.
No.
Goldfinger.
Oh, that was about James Bond,    Sean  Connery-  I mean Sean Connery, and uh,  he had this-  this car,  and it had a lot of gadgets to it.
You know, it had smoke  from the back of the car,    gas would leak out the bottom.
And then they had uh,  a bullet proof shield in back- in- in the back and the front of the windows,  and then they had this rejective seat on one- on the left- on the right of him.
If somebody got in there he didn't like or  had a gun to his head,  well he could just push the red button.
And they uh, and the -  a little thing would open up out of the top of the car, and the person would go up,  you know.
And then he had this- then there was this man named Oddjob,  and he was fat.
He didn't like J- James Bond.
Then the painted this girl gold, and uh, she suffocated.
You know, her skin suffocated of paint.
No.
I'd like to have a puppy, but when it get big, I'd give it away.
No.
Cause can't wrestle with 'em then!
Boxer  or    a mix Collie.
Let me see.
Science,    Math,  English,  Cooking,  Sewing,  Gym, um,   m-  Geography.
Oh, come home, change my clothes, eat, and go back outside.
Well, let me see.
We get up- I get up,    fix my bed, wash my face and hands, and eat.
And if it's my day to wash dishes, I wash the dishes to help my mother with the baby.
Then I come outside around one,  or- No, one thirty,  and um,  come over here and get RD-NAME-2.
Then RD-NAME-2 and all of us go outside,  and be playing around  And then we go over  um, RD-NAME-2's house, play records,  call people up, make jokes, you know, to our friends.
And then at night, we run up and down the street,  run around back, swing full and wide, then run back down to the pool, sit down and talk.
Then we come back on the front,  and play games.
Or if the boys be out, then we be talking to them.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Let me see.
He has curly hair, and    he has pretty eyes.
He's  kind of light s- He light skinned,  and uh,    he's sixteen.
An-    he cleans up parks, you know.
He just- oh-  And um,  he's the kind of guy that, you know like,  he- If he come home from work, he like- he like to see his girlfriend in the house  or he be doing something, instead of talking to another boy while he ain't there.
Cause he's jealous.
Yep.
He caught me- he caught me doing that yesterday.
He beat me up.
See I was at the pool house talking.
He came down to the pool yesterday   to swim with me,  and um,  and I was talking to this boy.
And he got mad,  brought me back home and beat me up.
Told me-  I said, I gotta go in the house.
My mother want me.
So then he said-  he said,    well you be- I'll be back.
Well you be out here at  eight thirty.
I mean eight thirty on the dot.
I said, okay.
And I was over here, and at eight thirty I wasn't over there.
I went over there f- one minute after eight thirty, and he was coming down the street,  but he was late anyway so he didn't say anything.
And I did something I shouldn't have done, and  he said he was gonna bust me on my lip, but then he changed his mind.
I don't believe he would have did it though.
Around four or five weeks.
Yep, Miss RD-NAME-2.
She couldn't handle our class.
We always crack jokes about her and stuff, you know, mess around with her.
She couldn't handle the class.
She just wasn't made to be- She wasn't fit-  Well you know,  she wasn't fit to be a teacher.
She was soft  on children.
She wasn't hard.
And- and- and the childr- The child- Well, like a child would do something, and she tell him, sit down, don't do that, they'll keep on doing it cause she would just say,  sit down, don't do that.
You know, she wouldn't holler, but sometimes she'd get mean, and call the office cause we had a buzzer.
She could push the bell- Yeah.
Yeah, they'll come up and get you.
Or even she'll send you down with a note,  send somebody else with a note.
Best teacher was my English teacher.
It was a he.
I mean he would play with us sometime,    and then  one day, he would um,  really teach us English, and then the next day he would play with us  and teach us too.
He'd joke about things,    tell us stories.
You know, read us stories out these books.
He gave me a- a B.
Yeah, he was the nice though.
And then he left, and then we had a new English teacher.
And she couldn't handle us, but I still got a B.
Nope.
She said we was her n-  the- the terriblest class she ever had.
Well, if there was one teacher I couldn't stand, it was Miss RD-NAME-2.
I didn't like cause she hollered at people.
Sometimes she holler at you for nothing.
You know, she'd   call the office on you for nothing.
And she get mad cause if it be a lot of children in the hall, she ask us do we know 'em?
And if we say we knew 'em and we couldn't tell her their name cause they'd get us  after school, she'd get mad and call the office and tell them we know the names.
But-  but we won't tell her,  and she'll tell the office that.
And the- um,  the principal or  assistant principal would come up there and ask us if we didn't tell, and they putting to suspend us.
But I still wouldn't tell.
Mm-hm.
I w- I would never tell on my friends.
Well I usually be with RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-1, and    RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-3, and um- Uh-huh, and um,    RD-NAME-2 upstairs, and um, the little one upstairs.
She be with us all the time.
RD-NAME-2, yep.
Yeah, she's so little, and to be eleven!
Her mother's kind of short.
Her father's kind of short.
No, all of us speak English,  except for when, you know,  like we- If we take Spanish in school, we be-  We'll call each other names and stuff in Spanish or something like that.
So we won't know what they saying.
No.
RD-NAME-2.
Uh, she- w- she- Well, she knows mostly everything.
And you know,  we all- She always- She's the funniest one of the group, anyway.
And she- You know, we always go over her house,  and she always give us something to eat or something, you know.
Well RD-NAME-2 is new.
She just moved here from F- um,    Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and  she is uh- She did- She asked us questions, our names and stuff.
And then she start, you know, s- coming over  and playing with us.
So then she start playing with us, you know, and she just start hanging with us now.
She do whatever we do,  go wherever we go.
Be a airline stewardess.
Yep.
Well,   sometimes she works in the day, and some work in the- at night, on a plane.
And we ride from state or city-  c-   c-  city to city.
Make sure the um,  passengers are comfortable.
Make sure they get what the want.
You know,  if you have a-     A nurse.
Some-  Some are- Some nurses  give children their shots.
Some look in on patients and give them their breakfasts dish.
Uh, take their temperature, write on their record, you know.
Some work behind a desk as a doctor.
Some work in surgery, you know.
Mm, I wouldn't want to work in surgery cause I have a weak stomach .
Yup.
Let me see.
I like well- look in on the patients and give them shots.
Mm-mm.
The children be screaming and hollering.
Oh the holidays?
Well, let me see.
Let me think of a holiday.
A holiday for me is like Christmas and  my birthday- RD-NAME-2's birthday is the same day on mine.
Uh- Let me see w-  She wants to celebrate this- N- Our birth- This  you know, birthday coming, she wants to celebrate it with  pink champagne   and uh, a lot of gifts and stuff.
You know, have a regular party.
Both of us have a party,   and go out.
And she- Um, she has a boyfriend name RD-NAME-2,  and um, and she wants RD-NAME-2  and her and me and RD-NAME-2 to go out- You know, together, all of us go tog- somewhere together.
Eat dinner out  and go t-  you know, movie or something.
Yup.
I don't know.
I hope so.
And Christmas!
Oh boy, I just can't wait til Christmas come.
I don't know what I'm getting, but  I want a stuffed animal, a teddy bear.
Yeah, I like teddy- Uh-huh.
I like 'em!
I have a teddy bear and two dogs,  and a doll   and a donkey.
And the last boyfriend I went with- Boy I had- Boyfriend I had, I- I went to uh,  Hershey Park with uh, the club- the Javelin club that I'm in.
And uh, we- we planned to go to Hershey Park.
We went, and I brought this um,   this donkey.
It was yellow and gold.
No, it was gold and black,  and it had a little straw hat on one side his ear.
And it had a black stripe going down the back.
And I gave it to my boyfriend.
He gave me a Instamatic 104.
But I didn't get it.
No, this was just uh- you know.
A gift.
No, this was just a gift.
I had brought it.
I said, well I'm'a give it to him.
Then I gave it to him, then we broke up.
Yup.
Oh, fourth of July?
We- we buy a lot of firecrackers and throw 'em with-  n- n- Put 'em under cans and stuff.
S- And, this fourth of July, me and- RD-NAME-3's mother invited me to go the uh,  Monument with 'em to see the fireworks shoot off.
Uh, but I couldn't stay long cause my mother had to go to work, and somebody had to stay at the- with the baby while she was at work, so I had to come back at ten  when she left.
And me and RD-NAME-3 came back.
We shot off fireworks when my father came back from taking her to work.
We shot off fireworks out on the front.
Then RD-NAME-2 came down there, and we sit out there and talked.
RD-NAME-2, and all of us.
And then I went in the house around twelve or twelve thirty.
Oh, New Year's Eve?
Oh!
Well, last y- last year New Year's Eve, the lady up the street gave a uh-   I was- That was-  Yeah, last New Year's Eve,  and um,    you know, she had a mistletoe over the door.
Whoever would come behind a boy,  have to kiss him and everything you know.
So I -  I didn't realize it was one up,  and it was this boy b-  in front of me, name RD-NAME-2,  that live across the street.
He walked in front of me.
Then she says, stop,  and uh,  and then I say, what for?
I can't come in?
She said, yeah.
You can come in after you kiss him.
I said, why?
I j- I see no mistletoe.
She said, look over your head.
I saw the mistletoe, so  he kissed me.
Then we just came on in, you know.
We had a party.
Her uh, daughter was in a cast from her neck  to her um,  waist.
And um,    and that was for her,  you know.
It was a surprise New Year's party.
You know, when it struck twelve, all the lights went out.
We was screaming and hollering, Happy New Year, and stuff.
And then her m- grandfather- Her father and mother call from Canada.
And um,  it was a long distance phone call.
And he-  he wished us a happy New Year.
Yup.
Oh yes.
No, see- No, I'm not getting bored.
See, last year- I mean, you know, y-  um-  Before school let out, I was going to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Now, I got- I had to get transferred cause  in my zone,  had- I had to go to RD-SCHOOL-2 now.
So I wanted to see what it was like to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I r- And which I really I don't wanna go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I wanna go back to RD-SCHOOL-2 cause all my friends are there.
Oh, RD-NAME-2, she's going to a Catholic school.
RD-NAME-2 is going to uh,  RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-NAME-1 is going to RD-SCHOOL-2, and um,   J- uh,  RD-NAME-3 is going to uh, RD-SCHOOL-3.
Uh ,  the neatest Christmas present was    a bicycle.
Huh?
Well, see I asked for a bicycle, but I want-  I was over my cousin's house for the Christmas holidays, and I ain't go home- I was supposed to go home night-  night  u- before Christmas, Christmas Eve.
And uh- I end up going Christmas day,  so uh,    when I went,  I-  Oh that was- That- I'm- I'm making a mistake.
That was  Christmas before, you know, I got the bike.
The next Christmas I as- The first Christmas I asked for a bike, but I got a dollhouse.
So, it didn't make no difference, as long as I had something.
But then um,    the next Christmas I asked for a bike.
I had a blue one.
And a- um,  I looked under the tree.
When we was woke- my father slept in the chair,  and when we woke up, the- uh- We was looking for the bikes.
We didn't see 'em.
So then,  We didn't say anything.
My father, he had gotten them, but he hid 'em.
He hid 'em in the closet.
So then he said-  So, then RD-NAME-2 was- My brother RD-NAME-2 was mad in a way,  and I was  in a way mad, too.
But I wouldn't- I didn't want to say anything to hurt his feelings.
So I said I'll be thankful for what I got.
So then I looked in the closet, and there was the bikes.
So I was all happy.
No, I never was in a car crash, but    one day I was over my cousin's house,  and I was washing dishes.
And um,  let me see.
I was washing dishes.
It was this cracked bowl!
And I had a tendency to mess with something when it's broke.
You know, just pick with it, be curious to see if it's gonna break.
I pressed it in.
It cut my thumb, and the meat was hanging all out.
I was crying and screaming cause I could see the white part of, and I didn't get stitches though.
It just g-  It just went back in.
My uncle- my uncle was crying, and it was wrapped up.
It was bleeding fast, you know.
Blood was rushing out of it.
Oh yes, right there.
And then it was another time I was getting my tonsils out last year.
Ooh, I thought I wasn't gonna go home.
It was  horrible.
Yeah, it hurt.
I couldn't say nothing, I'll be bubbling.
Felt all bad  and weak.
Yup.
Well we all have to go one- sometime.
But you never know when that is.