Oh boy.
Let's see.
The main thing was  lot of bike racing.
We used to- s- race around the block a lot.
And sometimes we play go carts.
That was a lot of fun too.
We didn't do that  as often because they were a lot harder to make.
Took a lot more time to do it, and I wasn't as stable.
I didn't have that much uh,  stick  in the beginning.
So I just rode bikes, you know.
It was a lot of fun.
And  other than that, we'd  I don't know, Follow the Leader a lot.
Hide and Go Seek with-  We  made up a lot of games, you know.
Just, something that seemed like it might be fun at the time.
We'd do that, and you know  get over with.
Oh, boy!
Let's see.
Mm.
A lot of it wasn't really-  It was variations of Follow the Leader in most cases.
We- I don't know.
Somebody go beat their head up against a tree or something, you know.
And  roll down hills, and uh,  we'd race a lot.
We didn't  skate as much.
W- when I got older, I don't know, I stopped  skating, when I  got around ten.
I don't know, I just  forgot about it because there's-  got intrigued by my bicycle a lot.
It was more fun to work with, gave me a little bit more of a challenge, but I don't know.
We-  it wasn't really that much.
We go with- You know, I go over my friend's house and  play different things.
You couldn't really  remember exactly what they were, we just  played around.
No, we improvised  a lot in these things.
Like, one board, uh,  with uh-  In most cases, we won- We'd take about four pieces of wood, and that was  most you needed.
We'd tear up an old wagon or something,  and  the axles from that, and we  get wheels from just about any where.
Let's see, uh,  a favorite- the favorite place,  let's see, baby carriages  were the best place.
They didn't last too long because they were kind of frail in most cases, but  they were in  easy-  in easy access.
And we got 'em easily.
So we just,  you know, anything we could pick up and put on.
Well, they were usually relays.
They were usually relays, and the person who didn't have a bike, or the person too little would be the starter for the thing.
But, let's see, they were normally two groups in a round,  and three people in each group.
And  one person ride around a block,  then he'd hit the other person's hand.
He'd ride around, you know, and we go along.
Then the last person on last leg, you know, the big thing,  would finish it.
Oh I know.
Well,  usual.
There's uh-  One person would be chosen or something, in most cases.
Or somebody want  to go looking for everybody else.
Uh,  we'd hide in different places.
You know, all around.
Like, it was a  church being built  uh, not too far from me.
And everybody hide  in the foundation of it.
And it  got kind of obvious after a little while, you know, where everybody was.
But  I- It wasn't really anything other than usual.
We just hid, you know.
Oh, okay.
Let's-  S- sometimes someone would  maybe someone did something wrong, and we have something on her.
And nobody wanted to uh, be the person looking out there, you know, for the other people.
So we threaten him with uh-  Say  he  threw the trash he was supposed to take out.
He threw it in, you know, d-  Instead of putting it in a trash can, he just kind of threw it in the trash can and everything, got all over the place.
We'd threaten to tell his mother or something like that, so he'd agree to be the um,  you know, the proxy for the thing.
And then he'd-  he'd go,  and he'd find a spot d-  Most of the time, we'd just  go to a tree, and put his head on the tree and cover his eyes.
And he'd start counting to twenty,  and at the end of twenty, he say, re-  ready or not, here I come.
And he'd  come after us.
I don't h- itn- we'd- most- most of the time we stay- stay open.
If you found a good spot, you know, you just stay there because everybody else is in uh, church.
So, if you're  uh, inventive, you'll find some place you know, decent to hide, and he-  he'll look all around.
He'll yell for  the most part, and he'll find somebody  and play around with them.
And, you know, he'll say, I know you're there,  so come on out.
And most- most of the time, we just stay there, and he'll come in after you.
Then if you run back, and if you make it to the tree before he tags you,  you don't have to be it.
But if he tags you before you  come out, you're it.
Uh, there was a poem we used to do.
I forgot exactly wh-  uh,  oh boy.
I forgot the poem.
It was- oh it was- it was a long- it wasn't- there- there were a couple of them.
Uh  engine, engine, number nine,  screaming on Chicago Line.
If the train should jump the track, do you want your money back?
And you go all the way around.
I just remembered it.
And,  we go around.
The last person in  would um,  be the  person who had to go through the whole thing.
Mm,  there may have been.
Th- there were a lot of 'em.
I can't remember 'em all now for some reason.
I don't know.
Tired or something.
Collected 'em  a lot times .
I had  a lot of  bottle caps and baseball cards.
I-  we didn't really play many games with them though.
Uh,  we weren't in  genius I guess .
We didn't- we uh- When they started uh,  on the Coke bottle caps, we had, uh, football players.
I saw-  I don't know.
I still have-  I have the majority of mine now, but I don't use 'em anymore.
They just sitting in cedar chest.
I don't- I had  well over  three hundred of 'em.
I had just about every one you could have.
My baseball cards were about the same.
Only I  died out of them  a lot sooner because  I don't know.
I don't like baseball as much as I used to.
So I just  kind of- I don't- discarded 'em.
That's about it.
I did, not too long ago.
Uh, wh- when I went to watch when they playing the Red Sox, and they won.
So, it was okay.
I don't know.
I- I'd- I  like the Senators.
I just  sympathetic toward 'em.
And that's- that's about it because I- and I have to be realistic to how seriously how much they are to do you know.
Well y- you may go to see Howard or something.
Now that he's on his spree, which he just dropped.
And I don't know.
It's not that much to be excited about the Senators,  and baseball in itself isn't really a  exciting game, as far as I'm concerned.
It's fun to play, but watching it, sitting there for  a couple hours, it doesn't do very much for you.
You just sit there and nothing happens.
In football you know, everything's moving all the time.
You have something to do.
Yeah, a lot more so.
Watching football is ev-  could be considered more for the- more fun then playing it.
But um,  I don't-  I enjoy playing it more because, I don't know,  there's something about me.
I just like the game.
But football, I like the action involved in it's-  It's always going, you know.
You don't-  you don't get a chance to sit there and contemplate too long what's going to happen.
Y-  always- uh- sometime-  Even-  even if your team is uh, on defense, it can be fun cause something  spectacular may happen, interception or something.
In baseball,  I doubt seriously if anything spectacular's gonna happen when the Senators are out in the field, you know?
Maybe a stop here or something, by the short stop cause you can't tell.
Well,  I play at school.
This year I didn't do very much.
Though in JV this year, I need the experience really.
It helped a lot.
Um,  that's about it.
My football career's  kind of in the dumps now.
N- next year- next year during summer camp hope to bring it up a lot because I haven't  really accomplished what I should have been accomplishing in it.
In track-  So far in track,  I've done my best,  and because in basketball- I was on the Varsity basketball team- I didn't do  that much in it, you know.
I-  I was a  second team.
I-  I sink-  I guess I was about the eighth man on the team,  which wasn't  too bad,  but it wasn't that good either.
And uh,  I don't know, I need  lot more experience than I got-  n-  than I got.
I should have been on JV.
But,  I've learned now.
So next year,  I should come up, you know, a superstar and all that.
In most c- yeah I- I would consider our school fair in  athletics.
In basketball, our school doesn't  well, our league period- Our- our school was okay for our league, I th-  We got third in our league this year,  uh second in a tournament, but  um,  overall in the city, our school is-  our league is ranked rather low.
Oh no, we,  in off league games a lot  we uh,  play a few Catholic schools.
Like, we play Gonzaga this year.
We didn't do as well as we should have, but  you kn- It helps a lot to play a school  considered a lot better than you are,  and if you beat 'em, you know, you're in good shape.
Oh, I don't have as many  anymore.
I don't watch TV as much  except  NFL Action,  uh,  Wide World of Sports.
Let's see,  and Frank McGee reporter's pretty good sometimes.
I don't watch the news as much anymore because I'm not home  in time to see it in most cases.
Uh- Well now I just-  If something's on the TV I'll watch it in most cases,  but now I-  I stay out a lot more.
And-  and I have a lot more homework to be doing.
Therefore, TV suffers.
I don't know.
It- I'm debating it-  but it's- it's there.
Oh boy.
Mission Impossible.
I just remember the one show I watch all the time.
Uh,  I think that's-  it's funny when it really makes you think, and the whole-  on the whole TV, I don't-  uh- Let's see.
Last w-  yesterday-  yesterday  they were trying to  stop slavery in uh,  this country in the m-  Middle East,  and they had a corrupt ruler,  which is normally the case, but  they had a  corrupt ruler.
And someone supplying with slaves- That's the only  nation in the world that  still has, uh, legal slavery.
And they went through this  whole  big deal, you know.
I-  I didn't see the end of it, but  I- I went to sleep for s-   But uh,  there was this  big deal of um, all these scientific things.
Th- they had-  they got one of their f- uh,  employees  set up as a slave,  and he was captured.
And he got in and took photographs of the thing,  and  uh just- They duplicated it,  and they used the photographs later on to uh,  um,  incriminate the uh,  person who was supplying this corrupt ruler with the slaves.
That's- And,  uh,  most of the stuff they do there is s- so weird.
They-  they have ways of uh,  putting things together out of nothing,  that kind of shocks you.
Like  the person who was set up as a slave,  he went in with  this robe on,  and he,  you know, he looked like a slave.
From that he came out, u-  They had it planned so he could break out.
He had a  key in his mouth when he walked in.
He had a uniform on,  not on, but uh,  inside of his belt on his  tunic or whatever.
And he had  a camera  that he could switch and make into a gun- make it look like a gun rather.
And the camera-  First he had the camera, took the photographs with it, and  then he  uh,  kind of, I don't know, he  put everything together.
Then he ended up as a  guard, and he looked like one of the guards that thought they were guarding him.
And he  broke out of his um-  He didn't really break out.
He had  a way of opening up the uh,  door, so he could get out.
And he  walked out  and pretended-  I don't know.
He just kind of blended in with the rest of the people, and he  he talked his way out of the uh, jail  and down to his friends where he met 'em and took the information that he had, and it  went on like that.
I couldn't r-  Forgot the rest.
Uh,  I don't know.
M- movies don't  leave  that much for lasting impression on me too much.
There was, uh-  Let me see.
Sure there's one.
A couple of 'em when I come out of- and I'm real psyched about 'em, but I, forget it after I get out.
Because- I don't-  I just k- finished cramming for an algebra assignment, so that's still on my mind.
That doesn't help too much.
Oh boy.
I don't know.
I haven't been to many movies lately.
I used to go often.
This year,  I've been to a lot of movies, I just can't remember exactly which ones I went to.
There-  they were enjoyable for the first couple of weeks.
The adventure ones don't stick with me at all.
The James Bond ones, you know.
They're nice to go look at and all, but they don't really stay.
No we had a dog, but he um,  died  a coup-  about a year ago.
He was  pushing up there in age, so I don't know.
He was- I was pretty close to him for a little while.
It was more so my- My brother's  a little closer to him than I was though,  so it affect him a lot more.
And he was younger when he died.
So, he,  you know.
It was almost like taking someone from him, and- Well  the dog was,    he was a little bit of everything really.
He was a, uh-  he was a hound, but um,  well-  The first one we had ran away.
He was a German Shepard.
He was-  He d- he ran away as a little puppy.
The one that I'm talking about  was a hound dog,  and he had a broken tail.
And he um,  well, he was-  he was  homely kind of.
He- he looked-  He- he was r- he's real nice, you know-  s- The thing is he wouldn't bite anybody  b-  partly because he didn't have the-  felt like he didn't have the time.
He always walked around, you know, kind of lazy most of the time.
And he  loved water, for one thing, you know.
Like f- if you're  watering the lawn  he'd hop in it.
That could have- That could have been the reason he died, so I think  he got a little too wet one day,  and it was a little too much for him.
But uh,  I don't know.
He was-  If you looked at him, you-  I mean s- some dogs- You may have met dogs like this, but  kind of look at 'em, and you see a person in 'em somehow.
The-  almost as if they're talking to you.
Oh, I could tell you .
Uh,  well,  at the beginning of the year,  I started off with five majors.
And as the year progressed,  because one of my majors was a  tenth grade subject,  Biology,  they suggested that I drop it and take it-  and continue it next year.
So, I continued with History,  English, Algebra Two,  and World H- and- Let me see.
History, English, Algebra Two.
French.
Can't forget that one.
Uh-  I came one on pretty good....
in  English,  comparatively, I- you know, I guess I get around a C plus.
It should have been better,  but I started off real bad.
Uh,  didn't really- I didn't work enough-  I didn't  get what the teacher had to offer.
And m-  Mr.
RD-NAME-2, my teacher, really  got on me about that a lot of times about not  putting out what I should be putting out.
Next year, I think I know a little better.
And Algebra,  it wasn't-  it's no real sweat  to uh,  doing algebra.
You just do it.
It's nothing to  concentrate on.
If you know it, you know it.
If you don't, you don't.
So that's not really much to talk about .
In History,  we had the weirdest teach-  uh-  Our teacher  lectured us  everyday  and  everyday- except for Friday's when we had tests-  and uh, most of the time  I didn't  bother to listen to him because  he was lecturing  straight from the book.
So he's-  in most cases I'd-  Sometimes I'd come with my book,  and look as if I was listening,  and other times I just  come and  kind of stare.
Think about something, see if I had a game that day,  I go into a trance, you know.
Dream up what I might be doing at-  in a f-  hour from there or something.
Then after that, I have French.
And that was my worst subject.
I don't know.
I must have a complex against it.
I just can't seem to  do it somehow.
I'm coming along with it.
And-  I think I found out my trouble.
I started off-  my teacher didn't really start me off in a way  I should have been started.
In- when I start- I started in the  fifth grade, and  I don't know.
My teacher-  I didn't really like my teacher that much.
It may not- It  probably wasn't her fault as much as it was mine, but  I had a dislike for the language to begin with.
And the other teachers I met didn't  help it too much until  a teacher I just had.
She was a  real good teacher.
She expressed herself  perfectly, and she  knew how to relate it you, so you f- you listened to her most cases.
And you know, a type of person you learn from easily.
Let's see and what else.
That's about it.
Oh,  elementary school, did a little bit of everything most of the time.
I would go over someone's house because it was no such thing as homework, so you go over and play.
Well, we'd play kickball a lot.
And baseball.
I think those two big games .
Like we have  uh  of the John Burroughs Elementary,  and there's a fence-  uh, enclosed area.
I guess it's around a  hundred feet long.
It's- it's something like that.
And we play kickball over in the area,  and we see who can get the most uh-  In the course of a year-  of a school year in most cases, you see who could get the most balls over the fence, you know.
Some people end up f- around five hundred,  you know, home runs, and all that stuff.
I- I think I end up with around four hundred or something like that.
And a person  who won had close to a thousand.
So, you know.
And when they win,   prize has this big  six scoop ice cream cone.
When they get that, you know, everybody pitches in a penny, and they buy him one.
Uh probably so.
I can't really see any reason to change it.
It wasn't really-  It didn't seem to be anything, you know, set- planned- It just kind of happened.
So I don't think it changed that much.
Well,  my social life is missing a lot, unfortunately.
Last year, I went to a  public school.
This year I'm going to a private school.
Made a big difference.
My social life was cut down completely.
Probably because of the work I have.
Probably because the people.
I think mainly  because the people are so  widely spread.
Every uh-  In public schools, you know, everyone's in a area.
You-  they live in, and they're required to go their school.
Or either they  have friends who live in the school with- who live near them,  or go to the same school.
So you  associate with the people almost-  at least  fifteen hours of the day almost.
You see 'em going home with 'em, you come to school with 'em, you stay at school with 'em, you study with 'em.
In some cases, the people go home and eat with 'em, and go to parties with 'em on Saturday and the weekend.
But in the- in the private school  you-  everyone lives in  all facets of the city and everything, and if you're not blessed to be old enough to drive,  or you don't have a car,  you're  left out of a lot of things.
And my sports  help me a lot on that because I got to know a lot of people that I wouldn't have known  had I just been a Freshman just sitting down.
You know, just coming to the school to learn, like a lot of my friends are.
And they don't know as many people as I do because  they don't know the people that have the cars, who can come out, pick them up when they're going to a party or something I didn't  have- Oh, yes I did.
Uh,  the teacher gave my best grade hollered a lot.
But most of my teachers have been  kind of quiet.
I've had teachers who've  bothered me, who hollered a lot.
But they weren't my teachers.
But in the third grade,  I had a lady named Mrs.
RD-NAME-3.
And  I ended up- In my second report card I got straight A's from her.
She was- she was six feet tall.
The only lady I've ev- I've ever seen that big.
And she was-  I'd say she was around one ninety.
Sh- and she-  I don't know.
She scared me.
The first time I walked in, I looked up at her and said, you're not-  This lady must been business.
I hadn't been used to anybody you know, quite that big and dominating  in the third grade  because  my teachers have been little for one thing.
And they've been  quiet and you know, meek, and at worst dishonest so-  so motherly and everything.
And she c- and she started us off as a whirl, you know.
She-  everybody you need such and such  for the class tomorrow.
If you don't have it, you have to deal with me.
And nobody really wanted to deal with her, so they had it.
And it helped me a lot.
I got-  I was well disciplined in that class, whereas after I left,  I started up with my old habits again.
But in that class, I worked  to the best of my abilities is because she was over there staring at me every second.
She hollered about almost anything.
If-  The main thing, if two boys- Say  you and your friend  are-  got a seat together in class.
You know how  kids go in and they're looking for seats the first day of school.
You naturally go and sit next to your friend.
So,  If sh- she realized this, and she'd  wait the first week, and she'd let the murmuring and everything go on for about a week.
And suddenly one morn- Monday morning,  she came in, and everyone was murmuring.
She just stared at us.
All of a sudden she just  let ouff a  real big scream.
Everybody shut up, you know.
And this kind of shocked us,  and  she decided  right then and there she was going to set up a room plan.
And if she uh-  if anyone  caught talking,  she'd  meet 'em in the cloak room where she had a  yard stick.
And you know you didn't want to go back there to find out what she did with the yard stick.
So everybody-  not everybody, but a few-  Myself, and a friend of mine  flew notes across the room,  you know, when she turned her back, we'd  make an airplane and fly a note across the room.
That was another one of her pet peeves.
She had to get us for that.
She-  Oh,  I don't know.
She'd- First she'd hit us with the yard stick.
Then she'd ask to go and stand in the hall until she  decided we were ready to come back in again.
Or if we decided we were ready to come back in again.
Let's see.
What else did she really  get mad about?
Uh, at the time I didn't think it was fair, but  when I think about it,  we did some weird- pretty weird things.
We weren't as-  as bad as a lot of kids I know, but we did some really  you know, stupid things that she had a right to yell.
She was real emotional about those things, you know.
Aw, I've been lucky in my-  My best teacher  would probably be my French teacher of this year.
The-  No, I don't know.
The teacher I-  I most enjoyed listening to is my English teacher-  is uh, Mister RD-NAME-2.
And  he-  he- I don't know.
He was another person who had a way of expressing himself.
He had a type of voice for being a teacher.
It wasn't  monotone.
You know, where every-  everything's on a set-  You must have heard peop- people lecture  where their voice just goes, you know, bah, and it never really change.
But  he had some way of  raising his voice to hit this peak of perfection, and then bringing it down to show this  you know, descent, and so on.
And he was  a lot of fun to listen to,  and then  again, he made you think a lot.
That was-  the big thing- We did a lot of a writing in his class.
He  almost taught me on he-  taught me to know  to write.
Because at first, I really didn't-  I thought I knew how to write, and then all of a sudden, I- He  showed me- pointed out all these little mistakes I was making.
I had no idea  there were such things as, you know,  apostry and all that stuff- apostrophe.
But I don't know.
I've  learned a lot in his class.
The one who-  I think who's gonna have the most effect-  on long range will probably be my French teacher  cause she woke me up to a language that I hadn't really  cared about.
I  was really thinking about dropping it  this year.
I didn't really want to continue it, but they advised because I had  years before- you know, a few years experience at it, to continue the language.
Other than that,  I don't know.
I was- This teacher really woke me up to it.
She made me  want to continue, whereas I would have quit I think, had another teacher taught me.
Uh,  I don't think so.
Eh, I normally get along with all of my teachers  because of-  I don't know why.
I- I've had teachers who are  not teaching me  who I couldn't stand at all.
But normally any-  The teachers I've had  I've normally liked.
I can't really think of one I didn't really like that much.
Quite often.
Uh- Oh,  this year,  a fr-   a friend of my  uh,  spilled  uh, let's se-  uh- Our teacher had a  Mustang.
Not our teacher, but a teacher at the school had a Mustang.
And for some reason, he had a -  a hate for something, or just  want to have a lot of fun,  so he  spilled syrup  in her bucket seats.
And it was a lot of fun.
You know, she came out, and looked at it I thought she was gonna sit in it.
He wanted her to sit in it,  and she started- It hardened,  and she started to scrape it off, you know, and  I didn't think she'd be that stupid really.
It- All you have to do is put hot water on it, you know, it'll melt.
She started scraping it off and half her seat was coming up with it.
It was-  I don't know.
It was-  it was funny at the moment, but when she- when I started to see it-  And the car was almost brand new and everything, you know.
It started to get kind of sickening.
Then a lot of other things have happened.
You know like  the big thing about putting a frog in a teacher's seat or something like that.
That always happened, and when they first came out with these  s-  uh, snakes  that look real, you know jinger,  Everybody managed to put one on a teacher's desk somewhere, you know.
It's- it was something big, and  it kind of died out though.
Jokes now are getting a little more elaborate.
See, what else can I think of?
Most of 'em are  good sports, except for  the teacher who had the uh, syrup.
She didn't like that too much-  Oh!
Here it is.
Uh,   uh,  AP  English  teacher at our school, Mr.
RD-NAME-2,  Uh- The Seniors-  He has a car  that he kind of cherishes .
It's- it's real old.
No, it's not real old.
It's a Ford.
I'd say it's around sixty two.
And it's blue.
And the Seniors decided,  since they were leaving, you know, nothing was gonna happen to 'em,  so they  painted his car, you know, with 'the class of sixty eight' and all that mess it-  It's m- it's happened so many times but they-  It just had to happen at our school they figured.
Then they going to push the crowd on the  football field, out, and had it announced over the PA system,  will the-  will the man with  license plate such and such  please come and get his  nineteen sixty-two blue  Ford Fairl- Fairlane off the football field?, you know.
It was pretty good.
Nice joke, as far it went.
Gregory  had a lot to do with it.
He- Yeah.
He was one of those.
Um, Mister RD-NAME-2 took it in all- in good stride.
They-  N-  I think it washed off pretty easily because they didn't- They used white wash I think.
And they taped a  stripe-  They used tape, and taped his car up pretty good, but other than that, it was okay.
Unintelligible  Uh- Well in most cases it was.
Once-  once my group almost got called a gang.
Who were in it   Boy that-  I don't know.
When I was in second grade,  we    I guess there around fifteen of us,  and we did-  Well, it- it- it could almost be called a gang, but it wasn't,  you know-  We didn't consider it a gang.
It was just a group of boys.
And  there was another group of boys,  and we  uh,  used to fight over little things.
You know, like-  Think we were called the Turkeys.
And I forgot exactly what they were called,  but  we'd  make up all k- kind of little jokes about 'em, and we'd uh-  fight 'em.
And a couple of times, we'd get caught by the principal or some teacher.
They reprimand us, and  talk to our parents and all that.
But  I don't know.
It'd-  Most cases,  the friends I had  were okay.
They-  they were-  I don't know.
Most of them thought about what they were going to do before they did it.
Therefore, we didn't get in as much trouble as we could have gotten into in most cases, but they were okay.
Well, here  at our school- at my school now- Oh in this group?
I don't think so.
Maybe someone did.
Oh, excuse me.
We had a um,  uh, a girl,  RD-NAME-7  and she spoke several sf- foreign languages well.
But, she never really displayed her talents with us.
N-  Occasionally she might say something  in uh- uh- Spanish or something, but  other than that,  she spoke English- English most of the time.
Well,  in the beginning,  uh,  my neighbor was well integrated.
And  there were  white kids,  but as a uh-  M- I guess by the time I was around the sixth- When I  came to the sixth grade-  my sixth grade year,  I started realizing a lot of my white friends were  gone.
And now,  the neighborhood's not half as integrated as it was, I would say.
For every  six Negro families, there may be two  of Caucasian families and that's about it.
They're not-  We-  Unfortunately,  the- some of the kids I hung around with didn't really  know how to associate with uh white children,  but we didn't-  most of the time, we didn't really think about it.
It was just- They were there, and they were friends.
And we played around with them just as we would anybody else.
Well,  it more or less fluctuated.
Depending upon-  In-  The littlest kid in most cases,  was the one- Let's see.
RD-NAME-3.
He was pretty-  he was pretty tough on that.
I don't know.
He-  he  believed he was a genius, you know,  and everybody else  sol- uh- more or less went along with him cause he thought of some weird things to do.
And, let's see, sometimes I'd  make the, you know, top thing.
But we didn't- It depended upon what you had  to offer at that time, whether or not you were the leader.
We didn't really  uh,  associate any one person as a leader.
We just-  If a person came up with a ingenious idea  we give him his chance ot be a leader you know, and he'd  Unintelligible Well,  we didn't really care that much about how big they were because in most cases,  the little boys thought they could beat the bigger ones anyway, even if they couldn't.
So we didn't really think about it.
I was always a little bigger  before-  than my age.
Uh,  I don't- do- If- I think I was  one of the  biggest ones of my group,  until suddenly, it's- when I got into seventh grade,  I left my group,  and start going for older people- uh- you know, people a lot older than I was  at that time.
You know s-  eighth or ninth grade.
And  then I became small all of a sudden.
You know?
Lost that feeling of superiority, but we d- we didn't really  um,  capitalize on that  biggest person being the  big man, you know, the big leader.
We didn't do it as much.
It depends upon what type of person he  appeared to us-  appeared you know, to us, to be.
We'd go over his house a lot.
It was almost like joining a fraternity in most cases.
He-  he  had a lot of weird things to do.
So like,  after he got finished eating, run a couple of miles around the block you know.
And we'd time him and see how fast he did it in.
But  I don't know.
We didn't really  push him that hard to do anything.
If he-  if he wanted to  be with us  we'd welcome him in most cases because we weren't-  there weren't that many  people  who really wanted to uh,  be a decent group because a lot of people just go around and do all-  all kinds of weird things.
When I was younger, everybody  didn't  find all these weird things they do, you know.
The- there weren't that many ways to get into trouble.
You couldn't go around stealing and everything.
But,  I don't know.
As I got older, it's- it was real easy to  become separated.
Even  fifth- sixth grade it was easy to become separated because people started  growing up all of a sudden.
It-  I don't know.
Oh, I've had so many ideas.
I would-  NASA Field of Architecture.
Uh,  as far as I can say, that's  what I've wanted to be for  a couple of years now.
But,  a lot of-  a lot of other things have popped up that I  don't really know about, and I'm really uncertain as to what I wanna be.
For one thing, I'd have to bring my math grade to a good solid B plus.
And  what an art-  I don't-  I like art a lot.
That's one of the reasons I  decided to go into it  and  advertising.
I've done some- I've  done some advertise- I've uh  made some drawings for different books and magazines.
And I don't know.
Through that,  I got the idea in my head  about being a-  uh-  architectural engineer or something.
I don't know.
It's wise just to see.
The training?
That's- Yes .
That's-  I'd- Th- the- that's one of the reasons.
The four more  extra years- the two more extra years- Excuse me-  required  in college and the-  I would ??
I wouldn't be required I don't think,  to take a language.
That would help me a lot.
I like that.
But I would- I would be required to take  uh,  I'd have to take Intermediate Algebra over again.
And  I'm not sure what other, uh,  Math courses I'd have to take, but that would be the stressed subjects.
And I could take uh,  Freelance Art  and  History of  uh,  Art.
There will be a lot of courses.
Seminars and stuff.
But that uh  gone to some of 'em.
I've talked to some of my  consorts about it, but  I haven't really got any  definite plans or  have any real set knowledge as to what I would be required to do-  to do it yet, but I'll probably find out  next year, when they st- when I start thinking a little bit more about colleges.
I'm not sure yet.
Definitely am.
Ah, that's-  I have no question in my mind  really.
The only question  in my mind whether or not Uncle Sam wants me or not, you know.
That's about it, but  if I have my way about it,  I'll definitely go to college.
I don't-  S- some people,  it's not good to go to college, but  as far as I'm concerned, I'm pretty sure the work in college couldn't be  that much harder.
It probably- it's-  it'll probably be harder, but it-  I should be  prepared enough to go  through it  to make my mark on the world and so on.
I can't do it without a college education.
Probably,  I'd  buy my way into politics  somehow.
Uh,  I don't know all this mess that's been going on lately, I l-  like to see really,  what it would be like  for me to have a chance to help some of these  poor people and  all the Civil Rights  that's going on.
All these disturbances, somehow,  I'd-  I'd use it some way to uh,  help someone  or see  how I could get up  far enough in the world so as I could  have a big enough influence on the world whereas my word would mean something.
And  my word could  mean a difference of the life of someone here,  or money f- or food for some little kid down the street or something like that.
Uh-  I don't know.
I don't think I'd use it any  big  you know, blow up- b- build up a s- uh-  perfect city or anything for all the-  for all the poor people.
I'd  try and uh,  get- S- somehow, get some position where- whereas I would be listened to.
As- as a  valid person with valid ideas  and important ideas.
I don't know, seems as if money,  in most cases,  or  uh,  I don't know,  draw something, w-    And  some money would you- uh, you know-  It would kind of  give me-  not really power, but  I couldn't really say a  ability to be listened to and  thought of seriously.
Say like uh,  James Brown.
He's-  I don't  really like him that much though.
I don't think he's militant enough for some cases, but-  He's a little too  all American boy for me, but uh,  with his money  he could-  N- not- He couldn't, you know, just  donate a million dollars to  the people down who are poor because that's not doing anything, you know.
There's still a  couple of hundred million people who are still out poor.
He could use his money, and  he could-  When he says something,  and get say a cor- a corporation of people  all around the United States to decide to donate money.
It's a big difference because  they're-  want everybody together doing it.
One- one person,  no matter how much money they have, they can't  uh,  decide that,  you know, sh- shape the ideas of,  you know,  the rest of the people.
If  the  whole  person-  the whole United States so to speak, just  gets together on this thing,  and it-  I don't know.
Unfortunately, in our dec- a- on our economy,  money seems to be the only whereas people would join together.
We're j- you know, we're so hypocritical about the thing.
Money's a big thing.
Money'll be  the only way I think anybody really be recognized  completely  as having valid arguments,  valid ideas, and having this  valid arguments and ideas carried through by the rest of the people or his followers or whatever.
If I had political power, I would look into deeply all of the  different um,  struggles  that have been going on.
Of Mart- That's all these  riots and everything.
I- I kind of hate being an outsider  looking in.
I'd- I want- I would wanna get down deep in all these things because really  unfortunately, I- I wanted- I went there-  I'm in a few projects now whereas I  get a chance to work with some of my people, who really- you kn- who are-  were in this thing.
They're right there.
And I feel alienated.
Uh, I'm not  the same type of person.
I've been brought up in a sheltered life really  compared- I- I'm not as bad as some of the people are  uh,  in my class,  but  the middle class Negro unfortunately  just doesn't realize what's going on.
And  I don't know  political power would enable me to  get down and find out.
I could  u- I could use my  um,  power to  have investigations of such and such of these problems here and there.
And  I don't really- I couldn't really say what I'd do because I'm not  prepared now  to do anything.
That's we- that's were the college educations comes in.
Cause my ideas are so  jangled.
I can't get out most of the ideas I have unfortunately.
But  my ideas are, you know, they're kind of crammed up in my head,  and     Like in there I couldn't do much  because I'm too unstable, but  after I  ,  my ideas  come together, and I see what I really want because right now I don't really know.
But,  with this political power  I could express these ideas, and I could carry them through.
And  someone would, you know-  someone-  I would try and help someone to see the blunt of the thing.
Nah.
Uh, there definitely is.
The-  the people  who are-  S- say for instance I have a friend  who- His name is Mike.
He's nineteen years old,  and he's, uh,  president  of a club in southeast.
And  this club,  the group of boys-  th-  they aren't really-  they're-  they're far from poor, but they're not middle class.
Uh, they're, uh-    Excuse me.
They- they don't have the  best things in life,  and they  manage to get into a lot of trouble.
And they see  the people in my class,  as, uh, Uncle Toms,  you know.
They-  they can't help but see it because  people in my class  say a- a- all these laws.
They've been a lot of Civil Rights laws passed.
So the majority of the people,  in- of the middle class Negroes, seems to- s-  think as if these uh-  these laws are all that unnecessary.
They've done as much as they can.
The- Meaning the white man- They've done as much as they can.
Let's um,  let them-  Let's give 'em a chance to uh, find out, you know, give 'em a chance to accept us.
But the people in the ghettos and everything, they don't want a chance to be accepted, they j- they  they're sick of waiting, you know.
They've been waiting for so many years.
And to begin with, they have nothing to lose.
Uh,  the- this- This has been said so many times, but not very many people  really realize what little- how little they have to lose.
I've heard people, um, in debates.
People have s-  ask  why all these people down in  downtown Washington are burning up everything,  and why they're burning themselves out of homes.
And in most cases, you should go see some of the homes they are living in, you know.
About the size of this room, and  rats and everything else running around.
Twelve kids in the place.
Not really much to lose, like the poor people's march,  um,  a lot of the people down there actually living better than they were in their own homes.
That's- in a lot cases, that's the reason they're there.
Yeah because they have more-  The  march  offers them- The- they're guaranteed food.
They guaranteed a home at all costs- I mean, at all times, without cost,  which is a big difference from what they had to suffer before.
In a lot of cases,  the-  they were paying enough  in their little dinky rooms  to have a,  not,  you know,  a normal apartment, but a halfway decent apartment somewhere else.
Whereas  it- you know, when you're s-  say f-  only forty five dollars a month,  that's not that much really, but it's enough to  do better than you're doing.
I-  one place had a seventy five dollar a month rent on it.
It was  two room apartment,  and the apartment was a good hundred years old, you know, ready to fall down.
It was unbelievable the cost they were making 'em pay.