Um,  well we used to play  um,  hide and go see and  tag and all that kind of stuff.
Then we used to uh,  see who was the best fence jumper on our street and we  always go jumping fences you know.
And we'd have  boxing matches and wrestling matches and stuff.
Then  we played um,  frivolous games with the girls.
Like hide and go seek and uh,  guess what happens, stuff like that.
Well,  they hide, you see.
And  usually a boy go hide so if a girl  you know mess around.
Well you put your feet in you know and they say a little poem you know like, Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out,  and if  um, their finger lands on your toe when they say the word out  then you're not it.
And the last one out is it so he has to go  to the base you know and hide his eyes and everything  and count to ten or say a little poem or something  while everyone else goes and hides.
That's it that's the-  that's the um,  the way you're supposed to play w- way we played  we just go  the girls would hide,  and the boys would go try and find 'em.
Well,  rather not talk about it.
Well if you find him you have to try and beat him back to the base,  and if you do,  the last- You- first you'll say um,  the last one I catch is it.
You know.
And so  you go out  and hi- and try and find everyone, the last one you catch is it.
But if he beats you back to the base  then he's free.
See.
And you have to be it all over again.
Well, let me see.
Basically the same thing, somebody's it  and whoever he catches and touches  then they're it.
Then they had variations like freeze tag,  when you touch a person they have to stand still.
Then someone else will come up and touch 'em and they could move again.
Well they have iron tag, as soon as you got on something iron  you couldn't be tagged it  cause iron was the base.
Mm-hm.
Um, let's see.
Mickey Mouse built a house, how many nails did he use,  and then if- if you say seven they'll say one two three four five six seven, whoever fingers lands on they're out.
Mm-mm just run and jump over fences.
Mm iron fences, wooden fences, just fences all around the neighborhood.
Yeah that's why we don't do it anymore.
This real fat guy you know  tried to show off, he jumped a fenced and then  leg got caught in the iron spike.
Messed him up.
Yeah pret- No not real bad he just had to get about  ten tetanus shots and all that kind of stuff.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um- Let's see uh,  The Smothers Brothers, and uh,  Mission Impossible,  and uh,  um, that's just about all I look at.
Mm-hm.
Uh, let's see.
Honestly I don't.
Well let- They're always to um,  um,  um, foil a plot by some foreign agent who's trying to take over a country.
And what happens when it first starts,  this guy comes in and he  takes this tape recorder out of a refrigerator or something stupid like that,  and they say,  your mission is to  thwart a plot by so and so,  and this tape will self destruct in two minutes you know, so that's all very dramatic.
And so uh-  See I can't remember cause I haven't seen it in a long time.
Um.
Oh crap.
Can't remember them now cause I haven't seen it in a  real long time.
I remember all the gimmicks they use you know like this guy will disguise himself as someone and give a phony speech.
Stuff like that.
Or they'll be breaking into a safe you know.
Um,  I remember I saw a James Bond movie once.
Uh Thunderball.
Yeah.
Well,  uh,  These- uh, this guy had stolen two atomic bombs you know,  and he uh,  was  trying to blackmail the world he said,  he demanded two million dollars or so,  or they would destroy the world.
So it was up to James Bond to find him you-  and destroy the bomb.
So he goes down into um,    uh, I think it was Jamaica or some place like that you know,  has all these love affairs with all these women they tell him the secrets you know.
And so finally he finds that the bombs are hidden underwater you know so he gets this fancy gizmo you know all these gimmicks he has, goes underwater with it you know and- and the thing shoots spears out and  bullets out and everything and  he goes into this room where the submarine is with the  bombs and  he takes 'em out by hisself,  then  um,  this guy's  uh,  men are trying to destroy Bond you know,  and so all of a sudden he pushes his little secret button or something stupid like that.
And all these guys fell out of the sky you know into the water, all these frog men.
It's a great underwater battle, finally they rescue the bombs,  and James Bond sails off into the East with a beautiful girl.
Yeah.
That's just about it.
Hm.
Yeah.
Pretty cool.
Let me see.
I don't watch it very much but my brother's- he's always looking at these gladiator movies and everything you know.
These kooks, these strong men you know.
Lift up a papier-mache rock and throw it at somebody.
No.
Yeah a dog.
He's kind of a mutt, you know.
Racked up dog.
Nope.
Sits there and eats.
Yeah it's about ten years old.
Brownie.
I had a goldfish a couple times.
Hm.
Couple turtles, couple snakes.
Mm-hm.
I just left 'em in a cage, I'd take 'em out, show off you know hold their heads around.
One bit me one time, I killed it.
Mm-mm.
It was a black snake.
Well he was over- down at camp, you know.
When I went to camp.
They had all these snakes around the place so I just caught one and then it's-  put my foot on it's head, picked it up.
Mm yeah I put a mouse in there every  once in a while, but they don't eat very much they eat something like  once every two weeks or something.
Hm?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well he just curls back you know.
He just doesn't move and the mouse is standing there scared to death and he just strikes out and hits the mouse  right in his back, you know.
And the mouse just  keels over and he  swallows him whole.
Yeah.
A mouse can't fight a snake back very well I don't think.
Um,  well-  well first there's French,  and  Chemistry and  Geometry and  English.
Well, I used to have a wild life when I was ten, you know.
So we-  I remember all the time the best fun we ever had was when we would go to the bakery and s-  try and steal the pies they had.
Because they had this big conveyor belt where all the pies you know  rolling down, all you have to do is-  is climb up on some boxes and get all the pies you want.
Or- or we go in there where the trucks are up on the platform and steal all their cakes and everything out of there.
Sometime the men would chase you and it was always fun to be chased by somebody.
Then we'd have these little gangs, you know  and we'd go to the zoo, or we'd have gang wars with the street around the corner you know we'd throw  glass and rocks at each other and everything.
Yeah if you got caught, yes.
Lot of time.
Get your head beat in.
Yeah.
Mm sometime the parents do.
Let's see.
Used to  just go places you know.
Bother people.
Mostly play games a lot of time like baseball or football.
Basketball.
Yeah, usually they just p- play uh, with a half court you know you just  take out from o- on the side lines  and whoever makes a point,  it's still their ball you know the ball doesn't change hand  after if somebody scores.
you know  they play silly games like um,  this game called horses,  and  it be two people, two more people  and the guy would shoot the ball from a certain spot,  and if he made it,  you have to make it, if you don't you get a letter of the word horse like first letter would be H.
And you keep on it and if you miss five times you finally get horse and you're out.
You just do that, see who's the winner.
Well if- you know if it's  obvious you know like, what if he goes like,  you know  elbows, you know.
Yeah all the time.
Used to be fights all the time on my street.
Yup.
Well most of the time  try to s- talk to girls.
Go to a party or something like that.
Usually,  in the Summer y- you know trying to get a job to make some money.
Or- And go swimming, all that kind of stuff.
Well after school I usually do homework then I go outside and just mess around.
No it's- it's you know just general thing go out there  play a- play around with you know your friends,  have a little wrestling match once every so often.
Go up to the bakery to see if it's anything running on the conveyer belt.
You know.
Sometime we'll g- go down to a guy's basement and he'll play some records, we dance.
Stuff like that.
Sit around and talk a lot of crap about  how we were gonna get a car and how we were gonna do this and that.
Yeah I had several.
Mm, me being bad, walking out of the room and everything.
I used to play hooky from school sometime.
I remember once when I was in the fifth grade this teacher got really mad at me and  took this ruler and started hitting me man and it broke on me any everything.
In elementary school.
Mm, probably was fair.
Yeah that was my sixth grade teacher Mr.
RD-NAME-1, he was the only man in school he was so cool, because during the morning,  that's be the only time we studying and we study mostly math you know,  and English.
Maybe once in a while we  study science you know cause somebody would bring in a microscope or something.
Then usually in the evening we just went outside for sports and athletics cause he used to love to see people run and jump and everything.
We'd always have contests.
And he w- he wasn't st- no he didn't care what you did.
You know.
And I w-  I would- I c- I consider that my best year of school you know cause I was in-  in a room with all the hard heads you know.
Heh.
He used to just walk out the room well he- he wouldn't even care he'd just let you walk out you know.
He used to have a party in the room almost every day you know.
He'd bring in candy and everything.
God it was- Then- then he-  Uh, then he- he'd tell us you know-  We were in the sixth grade and we didn't know what he was talking about most of the time but he would start telling us about the facts of life you know.
And then he'd always try and explain what IQ meant you know.
He was always  you know telling people, if your IQ is sixty you are a moronic idiot you know and all this kind of stuff.
You know-  you know all the bad cats you know what I-  you know?
Pick fights you know they'd- who don't really care about studying and you just like to have fun you know.
That's around all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah ah, he was so cool cause he you know  when somebody get out of line he'd grab 'em start beating 'em you know.
And he really cut people down you know.
Like he-  Cause every day we used to have um,  cleanliness in- inspection you know to see who was dirty.
If you were dirty he would just tell you to your face in front of the whole class.
I remember one time he was telling this- this guy  that uh,  him and the janitors were gonna take him down into the um,  boys room and wash him you know.
He got us.
But it was such a good year, man we didn't do anything.
And he always was telling us about  how when a baby is first born he learns to smell you know.
All this kind of simple stuff.
Yeah he was a good dude.
Yup.
Let's see, I had several of them too.
Uh, there was my fifth grade teacher, I couldn't stand her.
Uh, she was just an old bag.
Uh, she was always giving me a lot of  stuff.
She was always on my back you know.
Hollering at me,  telling me to do this and that.
And she'll- You know  in-  in elementary school teachers you know tend to have a  pet you know who they would always favor.
And there was this one guy you know-  And I was the lieutenant of the patrol boys,  that's when you know  guys stand out on the corner,  and this other guy was just a private but he was her-  her pet so,  just because I forget-  forgot  um,  to call a patrol meeting one day she told  the lady who was in charge to bust me because I wasn't a good citizen and all this stuff.
Ever since then I hated her guts.
Can't stand the woman.
Hm?
Yeah I got busted to a private then I quit the next day.
I did't think that was fair.
Yeah.
Hm.
Well sometime  at our school now you know  guys would hide  you know  turn off the lights, stuff like that.
Give a surprise party  once every so often.
Yeah.
Yeah used to do that a lot.
Usually.
Sometime they get mad you know Yeah.
Cause I- I've lived on my same street for s-  fifteen, sixteen years now.
And  all the other guys have too so you know we're real tight, we've been together since we were little.
Yeah.
Yeah but you know first you would have to go through the ritual of of being tested out you know to see  what kind of a guy you are.
First they'd probably take you-  See if you know how to steal.
Then the- the   most important thing probably is  seeing how well you can fight because you know guys are always trying to see who's the best one you know.
Always competing to see who's-  has the best hands.
And then they probably see if-  if you were a lover and that or see what ki-  see if you'd help them out if they got in some trouble or something like that.
Mm-hm.
Um,  It's this one girl, she does.
But  you know I don't associate with her very much.
She thinks she's you know super cool and everything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And um,  This one guy RD-NAME-3, he doesn't know what he's talking about but he swears he knows German you know.
He's always  going in there, seig heil and all this crap you know.
He doesn't know what he's saying.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
It used to be me but I stopped growing.
So now it's probably  this guy I was telling you about, RD-NAME-3 you know cause he's about six feet weighs about two hundred pounds.
For- Well,  around where I live it's his ability to  fight you know and it's being a good guy you know like you say,  lend me five cent man cause I need it you know.
And he- he gives you the money you know  He- Like if you're getting jumped or something he comes help you out you know.
Stuff like that you know.
You know just  be a buddy you know.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And have a lot of friends you know, contacts.
Mm I wanna- I wanna um, be a engineer or something like that, go into chemistry or physics, something like that.
Mathematics.
Mm when I finish college, I don't know.
I don't feel like going  you know to get a PhD and all that kind of stuff, too much work.
Hm?
I don't know.
um, it's a-  a million kinds  engineers you know.
I thought I might wanna be a chemistry- chemis- chemical engineer at one point  or electrical engineer you know something like that.
Construction engineer or something.
Well probably  in the industry you know when they  wanna  produce a certain product faster he'll um,  tell 'em,  um, he'll  um,  um, suggest certain  um,  catalyst or something like that that might make  a reaction go faster or something.
Yeah I got to.
Well for one thing cause of the school I go to.
You see it- it- it's a college preparatory school you know.
They sent me there on a scholarship.
You know a- and  I don't think there's been one person in the history of the whole crummy school that hasn't gone to college.
Yeah.
Besides if I don't,  Uncle Sam'll get me, so.
Yeah.
I wish I-  there was some way I could get a lot of money without going.
Since there ain't I guess I gotta go.
Um,  I don't know, first I- I'd probably put some into poverty you know and try to help the poor people or something like that.
Then after you know I'd done my little bit for everybody   I'd b- probably buy myself a private island out in the  Pacific and have  beautiful girls around me and servants everything and have a party all year long.
Mm-hm.
Well- Well first there's- there's the  excitement about, what am I gonna get you know.
And so,  early Christmas morning, six o'clock you know me and my brother are downstairs opening up packages you know,  to see what we have.
Then we'll play with the stuff for a little while and  then we'll  usually go out and see what our friends got, you know.
Then there's always the eggnog you know and the candy and these- Don't even eat breakfast on Christmas.
We just stuff ourself with  fruits and all that crap you know.
Let's see.
Um, once I got a pinball machine.
Mm.
You know.
Have- have you ever seen one?
You know you put your- money in you know and you pull the little  lever back and it hits the ball out and the b-  ball hits things and you get so many points.
And  once I got a pool table.
Mm.
Yeah but it's kind of messed up.
If I was President?
Oh.
I'd ask for a car.
Any kind, as long as it runs.
Shoot.
Mm-mm.
Mm I d- I don't know.
First of all,  being a Negro I'd probably have to straighten out the racial situation you know.
Or poverty, you know.
Anybody who opposed me like you know all the  happy people down in Alabama they would just leave,  be executed you know.
See.
Then I- you know I'd try to create um,  a truly um,  affluent society for everybody you know.
Everybody you know  has their little  house out in the suburbs with  two kids and a dog  you know.
So everybody would be happy.
You know.
Then um,  probably  try and help out-  you know  try and bring some sort of peace to the world you know.
Try and get people-  Stop people from being so greedy and  warlike and everything you know.
Hm.
I been in that so many times.
The first time was when I went to camp one year you know.
And um,  it was this pond you know and it had this rope across it  that divided up the shallow end from the deep end.
So,  you know I was trying to play-  No we were on this life raft you know this big  tire inner tube you know we were floating around the place.
This genius guy you know decides to play king of the life raft you know so they were  pushing  people off.
I couldn't swim so the  raft drifted over by the rope where the rope was where it was pretty deep, I was only about  four feet tall or something like that,  this  guy  gives me an elbow you know and pushes me off.
And so I fall in the water I'm jumping up and down I'm screaming you know, help, help, you know.
This friend of mine sees me and he  dive up there and  I get on his back, he  carries me back to shore.
And then I  remember another time  when um-  Do you remember when uh,  this-  All these children start disappearing like s-  Ha- Hattie Jackson and  Michael something other,  maniacs were killing children and cutting them up.
Well a guy was in our neighborhood,  and so in the morning  before my mother left for work she told my- me and my brother,  if anyone calls you,  don't come.
They say, I  wanna ask you a question, just- just run away.
So, we went out in the morning,  w- I was down at my friend's house waiting for him to come out.
And so, all of a s- guy- this guy jumps off a truck and says,  come here,  I wanna ask you something.
Come here.
And he has something behind his back, I don't even know I -  I just panic right then and there you know.
I'm pushing on the door and my friend just closed the door and wouldn't let me in, you know.
And so me and my brother go running and jumping over fences just really digging you know.
And then the police  came and  rode us around in a squad car you know we were trying to see the truck or see the man and everything.
Mm-mm.
Not again.
Yeah.
Yeah I know.
Might've been dead.
Sometimes I do.
Like when I'm  com-  competing in sports you know.
Heh.
Because all- all the-  all the other guys on t- on the team you know try and get  real psyched up you know,  kill kill, murder murder and all this crap you know.
I just sit there and be quiet and say, if I'm gonna win I'm just gonna win you know.
Wrestling  you know,  it's all individual competition you know.
You don't have to depend on a team so I just sit there and say,  if I'm'a win I'm'a win, if I'm'a lose I'm'a lose, you know.
Yeah.
Mm.
Mm I say I'm pretty fair.
All except for one.
One twenty.