Kickball,  soccer ball,  and  sometimes we play mothers.
Sometimes we play mothers.
See,  um,  we have a um, one be the mother  and um, some of them have dolls for their child.
And some of 'em have-  Like my little brother is my son, like that.
Mm-hm.
I say, now it's time for you to take your nap, and he get in bed.
Sometime I have to beat him cause he play so much.
Mm-hm.
Um,  somebody roll the ball up  and um-  and when the ball come up to you, kick it.
And like,  you run the first of it and  if you can run up to um,  second- go on to second,  then s-  and somebody-  and then it's somebody else,  they gonna kick the ball and then I run again to third.
And if I can make it home, I go on home.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Freeze.
Um- Kay.
Um,  see, we all-  see, there's one person, we gonna run to a tree,  and the last one is it  for Freeze.
And um, we sposta all run out from the tree,  and um,  and then if we tag somebody, we sposta stand still.
And the one who they didn't catch, we-  If they tag me, then I'm- I'm Freeze.
Um,  it don't last that long.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
See, somebody  on side-  Um,  sometime they say,  Your ma-  Your mother, my mother sitting in the car.
My mother sock your mother in the  nose.
Are you ready?
And we sposta say yes or no.
Somebody say no and then when they hiding, then she say it again.
She said, I spy  stick 'em in the eye whoever stoled your apple pie.
You ready?
Then they say yeah.
And then she go, um, look out-  go look for 'em.
If she find- She say, first or last, and if she catch the last one,  sh-  they sposta um-  They it.
No.
Oh yeah.
One potato, two potato, three potatoes, four.
And then when we get to four,  we p- um,  um, they sposta put their hand behind their back.
And then they go again-  go around again.
One potato, two potato, three p-  t- potato four.
Then if they take they hand again,  do like that.
Then both of they hands out  and they out the .
Mm,  mm-mm.
Not that I know of.
Uh-uh.
I like to watch um,  The Age of Hercules,  and um,  Batman and Flipper.
Oh.
They um-  um, see, this man, he um, sell food,  and he can swim in the water,  and then he put this black stuff down in the water, and that's where he um, Flipper stay at.
In the water.
And um, Flipper ate one of 'em.
And um,  and-  and th- he ate one of them and he didn't know nobody.
And they took um,  had  to call the doctor  and the doctor um, said  that um,  it's some black stuff  in his mouth he ate.
They became ?
nobody  and at the end,  um,  he- he was um-  he was alright.
And when the boy called them,  and the boy thought he was still was sick, but he wasn't.
And he call him and um, Flipper came  flying through the water and he jumped up  and he ran in the room.
Ran in his father-  ran to his father and said,  Father!
Father!
Um, Flipper is um,  alright!
And they all came out the house and all 'em was laughing.
He was jum-  jumping in and out the water.
Oh.
Um,  um,  all the- um-  all them um,  people was um,  fighting  and  most of 'em  was getting-  And the m-  part I didn't like when they was um,  sticking in him in his stoman and mm!
Well,  and at the end of uh,  that girl,  wa-  t- see,  um-  Them soldiers um, took Hercules  um, girlfriend.
She was the one she gon- was gonna marry.
And she took that.
He took 'em.
And um, took her to the queen,  and she said,  um,  Take her to the dungeon, cause they was gonna kill her the next day.
And so Hercules got all this um, people was on his side, and all of 'em came with sticks and things  and threw 'em at 'em,  until they kill all of 'em.
And then,  they um-  And then, they um- After that- After that,  they got married.
Yeah.
Mm, Speedway.
Um, Elvis Presley was in that.
And um,  all these girls, they was dancing and everything.
And the girl in the- One girl was in blue.
She can sing!
And um, they um, picked her.
If they shine the light on her,  they sposta get up and sing.
And she shined the light on that  girl with the blue  um,  the  blue shell and blue pants.
And she got up there and started to sing and she looked good  and she was going over there  um, on the stands where Elvis Presley was.
And Elvis Presley-  And after she finished singing, they put Elvis Presley on there,  and he was singing.
And um,  at the end,  um, he had to go um, to a racing car where they race at.
And all the time he wouldn't lose, he won.
Yes.
Huh?
A dog.
Um,  Buster.
Yes, you know,  he um-  he um,  take my um-  take our dresses and things  and pull 'em out in the backyard and lay all on it.
Mm-hm.
And they real clean too.
And he get 'em and put 'em- take 'em out.
And then  um, you know when we take the trash out?
He jump in the trash and talk- knock all of it off.
All th-  bags and things and we have to get it out.
She gets so mad!
And um,  when we came out, they jump all up on us when we going to school they jump on all our dresses.
And when it rain, they jump on us and get mud all over us and dirt.
Mm-hm.
H- I like him.
Um, five.
I make the sixth one.
Um,  Arithmetic  and um,  uh, Geography,  and um,  Spelling  and uh-  Mm,  that's- that's all.
I like Arithmetic cause that's more steady.
Um,  I hate to do Spelling.
Um,  we play um-  Sometimes we play um-  We go out and play at kickball out in the alleys.
On the alley.
And sometime we go in the house and um,  clean up.
Cause most us have to clean up after we come from school and then go out and play.
Um,  my-  She was  kind of nice but  in a way she wasn't.
She- s- most of 'em tell us  if-  if we be nice to them they'll be nice to us.
But most of my children in that room was bad.
Yup.
Then we have to stay about five o'clock after school.
She say,  Tell your mother  or grandmother you got to stay in.
The whole class got to stay in  cause they make so much noise.
Making noise.
She say,  If y'all don't shut that noise up,  I'm'a um, make y'all stay until five or six o'clock.
Keep on.
They keep on making noise,  then she put-  See,  and she ta-  put- she put time on the board.
And we talked about five hours  or something like that.
She put that down.
Ten hours she put that down-  down and add it all up.
That's how long we got to stay.
Hm?
I think it's fair because they make so much noise.
Mm-mm.
I- I just say, won't y'all shut up or we won't have to stay in!
But they keep on talking and- Mm.
Um,  she was my kindergarten teacher.
And- She um- She let me do everything for her.
She let me go out for matches and and let me take out things.
Um,  no I like all my teachers.
Hm?
Mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
I- One of my teachers, she- she fell out the chair.
You know how they turn around?
And they start laughing.
I didn't laugh  cause it wasn't funny.
She coulda hurt herself.
Only  um,  two of 'em.
Sometime um,  I hang with RD-NAME-2  and RD-NAME-2.
They um, speak English.
Um,  mm-mm.
Um, Sometime they-  I'm the leader.
Sometime my sister.
See, um,  they like um-  See,  they was gonna let that girl name RD-NAME-2 be the leader but  she didn't do so much.
She stayed in the house all the time.
But we come out every day.
We don't miss a day coming out.
And um, we come out every day and we play around with them and sometime we play um,  Girls Chase the Boys and- and- and after catch all them,  we sposta you know, hit 'em.
Don't- But don't hit 'em hard.
And then they all chase after us, and if they catch us, we sposta-  they sposta hit us too.
They have to um,  come outside every day  and  play with us  a-  around-  running around and  playing all kinds of games.
And then  she might um-  if-  if one of the girls say, put her in,  then I sposta put her in.
I wanna be a um, teacher.
When I get out of college I might.
Mm-hm.
She got  um-  um-  When she um-  Sometimes she got go to meetings.
And she got to sign notes for the um, principal  and  do things for the principal.
Um-  I'd go downtown  and buy me some new things.
Um,  I'd buy my-  my school clothes.
F- But my father'll buy some of 'em.
And I'd buy me some shoes.
And I- And I'd buy some um-  um-  some um-  a skirt,  blouse and a lot of things!
Mm-hm.
Um,  they-  they put all us to bed.
And most part I like about it is  when- when our things come.
But  the thing-  We can't see 'em.
That's why.
My father put 'em away.
He say, I got 'em but y'all can't see 'em.
And my aunt  she took 'em  down there to get their things.
And they- she- she shouldn't have took 'em.
Because they- See, when Christmas come they won't s- be surprised because they seen mostly all of it.
Then my  mother took 'em down to see her,  but my father didn't take us.
And when he say, y'all better be in bed when I come back, and we be in bed  dead asleep.
And we wake up real early just to see what we got.
Mm-hm.
What, outside?
Oh.
We put um, bows all around the windows  and um-  and Santa Claus up on the um,  w-  um-  You know, it's like one of them things you set flowers on?
He put him up on there.
And we decorate the tree inside.
Turkey  w- and um,  peas  and um,  uh- Yeah.
A um-  I got a radio.
I liked it because you can  um,  Uh the thing about it you have to put batteries and things in it.
Mm-hm.
Ha, no.
Mostly times I take it  somewhere with me when I'm going on  picnic  but we can have something.
My sister had a radio too.
My biggest one.
Mm-mm.
I got a um-  a baby sister.
I'm next to the biggest.
Mm-hm.
I got two brothers.
And I got three sisters.
I make four.