Well,  if we had- if I was at a party we played spin the bottle.
Uh, we played Monopoly,  checkers,  uh,  what else did we play?
Well we usually played cowboys and Indians.
Um,    well you  divide into two teams  and- and one team would be against the other team and we  had a park  right across the street from our houses and we usually played very rough.
We- I- I- I was going to tell you about that, we played some game   uh,  there was a devil  and the devil would tell what  type of  or what kind of pie he wanted and  that particular pie would run from the devil and then if the devil  caught him then he'd have to be the devil.
But I forget what you call it.
Oh it was a lot of fun, I think that was one of my favorite games.
You'd be a blueberry pie, you could  select the type you wanted to be.
I forgot to tell you about this game, I- I don't remember about that one.
Uh, we played hopsc-  hopscotch,  and you put um,  a stone in your block and you jump over all the other blocks And then if you've made it you know your stone would go to two,  and then to three until you got to ten.
No.
But in elementary school there was some little silly game, what was it, um-   Oh I can't think of it.
But uh,  when we were going to church  and we'd have programs, and  we played  little miss muffin  sit on a tuffin  eating her  Christmas pie,  along came the spider and sat down beside her and  frightened miss muffin away, and I used to be little miss muffin and when the spider came down I would have to jump up and scream and run away.
I didn't remember all the games I used to play I said, oh my goodness I didn't play any games, but when I start talking about them I remember all the games we used to play.
No, I played cowboys and Indians but I didn't play marbles.
I thought that was a boy's game, I usually watched.
Oh double dutch, I was one of the best  rope jumpers in my neighborhood and in high school I did a special performance on um,  one occasion  where I just jumped rope and showed a lot of different tricks.
Oh yes I was really good.
No it wasn't- it wasn't a- a game.
But everyb- every gym class presented  something.
Could be a dance,  uh, if your class was jumping rope you'd  jump rope.
And I did all of these different things with the rope, a single rope.
And everybody just loved it.
I remember becoming famous by jumping rope.
Well its not that I don't like TV, when I was younger,  I never  had the opportunity to see what I wanted on television.
Therefore I did other things and so  I never really became that interested in  television.
Now I didn't like  cowboys and Indians and  uh, The Lone Ranger,  I'm dating myself.
But um, I got out of the habit and now I only look at  Peyton Place  and- Well the last time I saw it uh,  Rodney's brother-in-law had  run over him  on the highway and knocked him off this motorcycle.
And he was in the hospital to have this operation,  and Betty told  Steven at the hospital to please leave  uh, her and Rod alone because he was just ruining their lives, just to stay out of it.
And he said, well he thought that he should know what was going on and uh,    she thought that  he was the one responsible for the fact that Rod might die.
And uh, the doc- I mean,  in the previews, the minister finally-  What was the girl's name?
Uh,  the girl who was staying with them, he finally  released some of his feelings about how he felt about her, I thought all the time he was in love with her but,  I was waiting to see, and the wife actually threw them together on purpose.
Because I think she likes somebody else but they haven't really brought that fact out.
No she's married to Rodney, she's been married to Rodney a long time now.
And uh,  she got a divorce from Steven.
Uh,  the father,  the old man, Peyton had something to do with that because  Betty at the time was up for a murder charge or  she thought  she had killed somebody, remember?
Right.
The cliff.
Only she was going to push Betty off and Betty stepped to the side and she fell over but there was no way that she could prove that.
And um,  Rodney's brother, what's his name?
Norman  uh, got this money from his wife's father,  so now he has a lot of money and he's going into business and that's how Steven  got mixed up  with Rodney and Betty again because they were in on this  business deal.
I love Peyton Place.
My roommate hates it.
But uh, she lets me watch it, she has a TV and I have a stereo and  we compromise.
Uh, not as much as I'd like to, the last  picture I saw was Guns for San Sebastian,  and it was really good.
Uh, it was about  this  man, I don't know what he was, he was so many things.
And he tried to tell the people in this village that he wasn't a minister but they wouldn't believe it.
He had been drinking some wine  and he put the cask in a tree.
Or behind something in the church.
And when somebody shot the arrow  the wine spilled and they thought it was blood and that this was a big miracle then they made him the priest of this little village.
And these people had been run out of the village by the Indians and um,    they said oh well, here's-  We can come back now and this priest will save us, but what the people didn't know was that they had to save themselves  because they weren't very brave.
And they would let people just run them out and the men wouldn't even try to fight.
And the- the Indians and this other outlaw group would wait for them to plant, and when food start growing they'd come in and take it and then they'd run back to the mountains again.
So um,   he came and gave them the courage to  fight.
Keep what they wanted.
Lullaby of Broadway.
Well I was-  I was a child at the time and it-  it was a musical.
I can't even remember what it was about,  but it  just left me feeling like I wanted to see it again.
But it never came back.
No those- I-  I enjoyed Lullaby of Broadway.
I don't know who starred in it or what it was about.0 But it was in color and it was  a beautiful musical.
I hope that it does come back one day but I doubt it.
No I haven't but I intend to.
Because someone was teasing me about that the other day.
I haven't seen it.
No I don't.
I don't believe in- in spooky things.
I don't know I- I intend to read the book.
But uh- Someone said that this is the first time that they had ever read a book and then gone to see the picture and  wasn't disappointed.
Because usually,  like Valley of the Dolls, the book is very good  but the picture.
isn't.
I did not read the book.
And after I read the book and  everyone was saying that the picture  wasn't as good as the book I didn't go to see the picture.
The book.
Mm-hm.
So I- No.
I didn't see Gone with the Wind.
My major was speech correction.
Heh.
Well you usually work with students who have more or less an organic  problem or some deeply embedded problem as  in contradiction to  people who just speak sub-standard English, they- And you work on things uh, like uh,  articulation  uh, but  to the point where they- you can't understand what they're saying.
And you understand what a non-standard speaker is saying.
And uh, we work on stuttering problems, aphasia,  and um,  lisping, voice problems.
No I never had the opportunity  to work with deaf mutes,  and  I don't really think we were taught to work with deaf mutes, that's an entirely different  aspect of speech correction I would imagine.
I don't either.
That's why I'm saying I- you know I wouldn't know where to begin with someone who couldn't talk at all.
Yes I- I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 RD-SCHOOL-1,  um,  RD-SCHOOL-2,  RD-SCHOOL-7   Yes I had some of my best teachers in elementary school.
Um,  I had a teacher named Mrs.
RD-NAME-2,  and she worked with me  to  help bring up my reading skills and develop me personally.
And when I  graduated from elementary school, she saw to it that I was put in a  good section.
Because the school that I went to, you know the further down I think in  section you go, the less education you get.
You know like  if you're in seven one or seven two you get the best books, the best teachers you know.
And  I was always grateful to her, she died just last year.
I used to go see her when I was in college.
And I didn't know she had passed.
No she didn't.
When I went to kindergarten,  when I was a little girl and everyone said,  RD-NAME-2 what do you wanna be?
I said, I wanna be a teacher.
I wanted to be a teacher but when I got out of high school I didn't know what I wanted to be.
I just instinctively went into  college to be a teacher.
My mother said you have a choice, you can work or you can go to school, I said I'll go to school.
I'll go to school.
No work for me.
I had worked that Summer, too in this lady's house.
And she wanted you-  sh- Well I was supposed to babysit.
And every day she'd add something like scrubbing the floors and then she want you to iron and I said, well I'm sorry, you know.
So uh, after three days, I said-  She wanted you- she wanted you to do all this work for ten dollars.
Not me.
She worked you to death.
And- oh and then the- this other thing she would you know  give the children one thing for lunch and you'd get something else for lunch,    and then one day I remember I brought my lunch and she says, oh  you brought your lunch?
And I said, yes I'm not used to eating peanut butter and jelly every day.
So I went to school after that, I said, well I know it's hard out- out there, I better go get some more education.
So I- And then another thing was that I had been in a academic course  Which really prepared me for college and not much else.
And I- No I had uh,  business in  junior high and typing in high school but  nothing really that would  you know qualify me.
Oh what-  Well when I'm eating my lunch I take my shoes off,  and the children hid my shoes one day and- and I'm saying I can't find my shoes,  and  you know I was sitting right there and they were all around me and I never missed the shoes.
That's one prank.
But they don't usually pull too many pranks on me.
They're too busy trying to entertain me.
They s- s- I don't know.
They say they do.
They say I'm fly whatever that means.
Yeah.
It means you know what's happening.
Uh, you  dress  young, you  talk  on their level, you understand their problems individually You know about the latest records,  latest stars, so they think you're fly.
Uh-huh you understand them.
Oh yes that means that you have a good shape.
And that's p-h-a-t and not f-a-t  Yeah.
Oh yes.
Uh, when I was in elementary school.
I- I couldn't stand her because she shook me one day.
And then she told me to tell my mother to call her,  and I didn't and I was being extremely good in school because I knew that if my mother you know heard about this  what I would get.
So after two months of knocking myself out being good she finally called my mother,  told my mother she told me to call her and I hadn't,  and uh, she went way back there when I cut up from school and told my mother and I got a beating and I- I never respected her for that.
Because I- I was intelligent enough to know that  if I had  behaved myself  all of that time that she didn't really need to call my mother.
And uh, well she was much older teacher.
and I don't think she knew anything about  being innovative or you know caring that much about the students.
And she did- and she told my mother that I talked  all of the time, well I did, you know.
But not after she told me  she was gonna call my mother.
I- you know I'd finish my work and I would just be bored and I would talk my head off,  and she'd say, she does her work but she talks.
Talks all of the time.
Oh that's odd, I went for two years of liberal arts and I didn't know what I wanted, and I took voice and articulation and enjoyed it, and I enjoyed the-  Teachers in the department talked me into it because I never would have gone into speech correction.
And I did and I really did enjoy it.
But now that I'm through school I don't want to teach it because I don't like  being stuck in cubby holes, you know to teach- Right see and- and I like the idea of having a whole class.
And I like the idea of relating to the students, you know.
And I don't wanna see them just once a week or twice a week.
I want to-  I want my children to get something from me and I wanna feel that I've given them a part of- of myself, you know.
So I teach English.
I feel that  they don't learn  some of the things that they need to know uh,  in English classes.
And a lot of the things that I never learned  in school  that I wish I had learned I try to teach that too.
Well usually I'm too busy to associate with other teachers I have five classes a section and a drama club.
And then my students visited me on my free period and at lunch and I just never had time to communicate with other teachers  teacher?
Yeah she teaches elementary school.
Uh, she has the sixth grade.
And um,  she-  she's um,  very different personality  uh,  from me but uh,  she's a good teacher.
I don't see how she does it, I couldn't uh,  teach elementary school, I don't have the temperament for it.
I can't teach things I'm not interested in.
Like geography.
I had to teach geography this year,  when one of the teachers left.
And here I had never had a geography course uh, since elementary school.
I don't know how I missed it.
But I hated it, I didn't even take it in college.
And here I was stuck with this geography class,  the class couldn't read.
And I was just stuck.
And I tried, you know, teaching them things that I- I liked you know, and- Oh,  I hated that.
Linguistics?
Oh well last year I was at  RD-WORK-2 and the principal  wanted me to  develop,  she wanted to develop me and she put me in  various types of programs like applied linguistic program.
Oh I objected to it at first you know, because I said, oh no another project, you know.
But I  uh,  became quite interested.
In fact, so interested I don't wanna teach speech anymore.
And um,   then I was in um,  the radio program and I had a program of my own.
So that was three different programs and then  there was a special project at the school and I was involved in that.
And so here I was stuck with four different projects, you know.
And uh-  but I enjoyed all of it and I think you know, it did do just what she wanted to do.
She passed um,  this year too and uh,  I- I'll always remember and appreciate her for  trying to  help me.
No I was involved in the institute under her.
Right.
And then I was transferred to Randall and the institute followed it's teachers, so.
Yeah, I was still  in it.
Oh my social group varies from-   gee, I don't know from what to what.
But it varies  uh,  you know, on the different levels.
I don't wanna say  categorize them into classes but it varies.
And I like to do everything and I can't find the class that does everything.
Oh I love to party.
And uh, I like to- Well that's- I- well the- at the school I'm at they don't party, you know.
And it's just so dull, you know if you could look forward to a nice party with your colleagues.
Um, I like to  bowl, I like to play chess, I haven't found anybody who  is a- Oh I love it.
But I haven't run into a pa- a steady partner.
I like to play Scrabble,  I like to  listen to the radio.
I like to write verse.
WLOK uh,  now, I used to listen to WOL but WLOK has uh-  WLOK has most of it's disc jockeys now.
Um,  I haven't ever been horseback riding but I'd like to.
I like to go boating,  I like to go to the amusement park.
At my age.
Uh- Coney Island, I have- and  the boyfriends I have think that this is ridiculous.
Uh,  but I love  to go to the amusement park and I haven't been all summer.
I like to swim but I don't swim very well.
It's- Glen Echo is an amusement park but it isn't very exciting.
No  m- I like to go to Atlantic City.
All of the time.
And I like to  go out to dinner.
That's my- next to my favorite pastime.
I love to cook.
But to me it says something is special about you when a man takes you out to dinner.
And you just sit there and-  in a nice moody restaurant.
Look at each other.
I can't even say over cocktails because I don't usually drink.
Party.
I-  I- Oh,  uh, well mother made us believe in Santa Claus until we were about  eleven or twelve, she tried anyway.
But one Christmas we stayed up all night to wait for Santa and we never heard Santa.
We just cut up and she said, well you know Santa Claus isn't going to give you anything this year because uh,  you can't even be good until he gets the things under the tree.
We really cut up.
And uh,  that morning we  you know, went downstairs and  looked under the tree, we had all of these things and we knew Santa hadn't been there.
But my mother really believed in Christmas, she'd buy you  dresses, shoes,  every toy you ever asked for, you'd get it.
I think  one year she bought us eighty dollar bikes, now you know that was a waste of money.
And desks,  oh they really believed in holidays.
You know, for instance you got clothes at school, for  Easter,  for Christmas,  and what was that other time?
You know like May Day you get a little special dress.
But they believe in holidays and uh,  they had this big-  I switched subjects.
At Christmas we had this big turkey, we used to have a- the largest turkey of anybody in my class, you know we could always boast about having the largest turkey and  all the food we had for Christmas  and we'd go to church  you know, that was a part of it too.
You know, going to church together.
But  we still do, now that everybody's grown and out on their own  we always get together for the holidays.
Mm-hm.
They live in Washington, we get together for the holidays and at night we go out with our friends.
Fourth of July,  even at this age,  we have fireworks.
And believe it or not, this Halloween I went trick or treating.
With my students.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well you see- Oh I didn't dress up.
Um,  they live in the neighborhood  where I've lived all my life, my students.
And uh,  many of them had  been to my house, you know to play with my sister and  I went to school with their sisters and brothers, And so,  you know, they already knew me.
So when I became their teacher it was kind of funny, you know but it was a  quite different relationship because uh, I make them know that you know, at home it's fun and games but in school, that's a place where you need- No because they know that I'm interested in their education.
Foremost.
And uh, right, if they don't get my work then we lose friendship as far as school is concerned.
No, that eighty bol- do- uh, dollar bike didn't ex- excite me that much.
I got- I received so many nice things for Christmas that I can't really say that I appreciated any one thing more than the other.
Any- you know, any small thing, it's just the idea that somebody's thinking about me  that makes me feel so good.
Believe in fate?
No.
Uh, no  but one time we went to Philadelphia    and my mother was driving this station wagon and we had to go around this circle,  and the circle had a lot of poles around it.
Every time we  try to turn she'd hit another circle, and I remember saying,  turn mom, turn mom,  lift up your head.
And my best friend who is my roommate now and I were holding hands and praying, you know.
We knew we were gone for sure.
But I guided her across that circle.
Ugh,  and now I live across the bridge  and when she crosses the Eleventh Street Bridge, my heart jumps in my mouth, I don't know whether it's instinct or what.
But I don't particularly believe in fate.
Predestination?
Do you call fate predestination?
Yes.
N- I believe in predestination even-  But I believe that  it's within every man to  try to  work out his own destiny.
And  some things I feel were  meant for you  already, but you were working them out towards this particular  goal.