Um, basketball, football,  baseball, softball.
Just about practically all the sports.
Swimming.
Uh, I ever did was crazy about swimming.
Oh yes.
I still do.
I, uh,- matter of fact I was just swimming at the Banneker swimming pool last Sunday.
That's right.
Oh we swim for fun, do a little racing and stuff like that.
I played that, but that's was only as a a kid, uh you know, with the girls you know, jumping rope.
Stuff like that.
Uh  it was alright but  baseball was my favorite at the time then.
That's the only  time you know.
You didn't have the parks, so you had to play in the streets.
Oh well we only had uh, three bases.
You uh,  at the time.
Home plate, the pitcher plate, and  back home, you know.
Oh no, I never played organized baseball is-  on account of the guy- most of the fellas was much more bigger than I was, and they  thought that I was too small to play with, and so  they had had  got all the big fellas to play with down here.
Oh yes, I was pretty good at marbles too.
Well, you draw a round ring and there uh-  you draw a line  just about a few feets away from it,  and there uh,  what we'd do, each one of us take a marble  and throw it at  the line, which we call the tall line.
And uh  the one that's more closer to the line gets the first shot.
And uh, if you shoot your marble from the line and-  and to the ring and you  marble  was to be in the ring where you just shoot on until your  your marble  come out of the ring and then the next man shot.
Oh I was a pretty sore loser at marbles.
I wasn't good as half of some of the other guys was because they had a  funny w- ways of shooting their marbles, and I never could adjust my thumb to it.
In or out.
I usually lose more than I win.
And then we'd had a little frolic, yeah, cause I didn't wanted to lose all my marbles.
Oh, that's th- that was uh  a standard thing at night when everybody was going in, all the kids  just being called in.
And that's what you do.
You tag 'em and say tag!
and then he don't wanna take the last tag, and then you say, you take the last tag.
Say, no I didn't, then you run and tag him back until  keeps up until you  finally, somebody have to get the last tag.
Well when you get the last tag, you just tryna run and make it.
Hide some way from him.
Run into the house or something.
Mm-hm.
Oh yes, we uh  usually play that then around-  well they play this  when we play hide and seek or something of the kind of games was so rapid that we change from one to the other.
Like when you  play marbles you-  night-  evening come, they play hide and seek you know.
We throw a can, any old kind of can.
In the road  the last one that calls,  he have to run after the can and somebody in the group would throw the can, and while he-  go to pick up the can and count to ten, then we all run and hide.
Then he'll  comes and say, I spy  RD-NAME-2 behind the toilet or something like that.
Or behind the house you know.
And around  that's the way uh the- that game went.
Mm-hm.
Well most of the time then I-  oh Cowboys.
Oh I really did like that.
We used to get these little bushes out in uh,  in the woods you know and we ties a string around it.
It- this is supposed to be the horse.
You know, and you try to get one of the- a real bushy type on the end.
You see you strip it down,  but you have a real bushy type on the end.
That's  considered as the horse's tail, you know.
You tie it with a string and you-  we have our cap guns, all the stuff like that and.
We just play all around up in the woods and around in the area.
Play Cowboys and some-  Indians all day long.
Oh yes, definitely.
I really like er, uh-  most  movies I like is most action movies.
I don't-  too much for the love scenes.
It was cause theys k- sort of boring to me.
I like comedies  like The Three Stooges uh- No, I didn't watch t- television last night.
Well all the Western and uh-  War movies I love most  of all,  action movies.
I like action in movies.
Such as er uh, what's this uh movie called?
Uh,  High Flyer  by John Wayne, and this  High Fly in the Sky by John Wayne.
I like that and er uh  Back to Bataan  and  just about all your war movies and  stuff like that.
Um- And Westerns like uh Cimarron, Big Valley,  uh  Gun Smoke.
And I also like the detective movies like NYPD.
I Spy.
Well  it was this detective story with NYPD, when they was trying to trap this sniper in town.
And er uh  it just keep getting a-  couldn't get a lead on him for some  simple reason, and he was just passing them all the time, and they- they had a description of him, but not good enough, on account of  he disguised hisself with er uh  with a beard  in the daytime, but he d-  he strikes at night.
And he was  shoot-  killing all the policemens  on the beat.
And er uh  so what happened, the-  it was some kids that finally-  he ran into this  uh  vacant building.
And these kids was- had they little house there, they little play house, and they spotted him, and they came up to him.
And they saw the police coming  so he gave them all  the money that  uh he had in his pocket not to tell.
And er uh, the detective came in and he questioned him-  questioned the kids.
And the kids uh looked so suspicious to him so evidently that's the way he grew suspicion of this guy probably was in there, was hiding, because they had a lead on him that they saw him in that area.
And also uh  another-  these other one, I think it's off now,  comes on in the daytime uh,  Richard Kimble.
Oh that really that- that's- there's a When they- when they caught the one-armed man now uh they was up on this high tower, Richard Kimble and him went up on the high tower and they was struggling with a fight.
And he fell down to his death,  and around  so evidentally they  captured a  man right there, and he walked away with this girl, and  funny thing about it, what made me laugh though, when uh he saw the policeman coming, though he was free,  he kind of stop and paused there for a minute, you know.
He was on the run so long, he just couldn't get adjusted to it you know.
Oh, I go to movies all the time now.
The movie  that I really think, a good Western that-  that I really liked I've-  it's one I want to see, and I'm gonna see it, uh called Stranger in Town, but this one that I seen already  is called The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.
That movie was really something.
It was really out of sight.
This er, uh  these three guys they  the Good.
He was  the type- a bounter hunter type.
And the Ugly,  he was this  set-up guy.They-  they would-  he would capture him like, you know, like he was taking him to town.
They would put him up  to be hung,  and then he would shoot him down and they would ride to another town and do the same thing over and over.
And so uh  the Ugly, he told 'em- he said-  said next time, say I think I should get a little bit more money because  I'm the one having the rope around my neck.
So the Good told him- he said, well my aim, might just get a little bit too uh off, and uh I don't know about that.
And so, as they  was riding to another town- so the Good  finally thought that he should put him down because he got ideas of trying to get more money from him.
So he took him out on this desert  and left him there, and uh, he went and picked up on another guy that-  going round and round with him so he could  shoot him down after they go to hang him you know?
And uh.
So the Ugly, he finally survived through the desert  some kind of way and  came back and  hunt him down and find him.
Where he-  he was in the process of getting ready to shoot a guy down that he was  gonna shoot down.
And er uh he told him, said no, so he says let him hang,  and-  and they h-  and they hunged him.
And so uh  he took him  the Ugly  took the Good  back out on the desert.
It was visa versa between the two.
And so happened  just about when he was  about inches of his life from his-  inches-  inches away from his life, he told him, he said, er uh  he was just gonna walk away and let him die, and all of a sudden this stage coach came  through the desert  with uh  Confederate troops on it.
And er uh  so he told 'em about  uh  some four hundred thousand dollars in gold  was buried in a grave,  and he said, just wait.
The guy fainted and away he went  to get some water  so the other guy he had on the desert almost dying,  he went up to the wagon and  crawled up them,  and the guy that  told him  where was the money at  in this grave.
And so after they told him,  and he saw the guy was over there, he come running there,  charge him.
He said, where is it?
Where is it?
Where's the money?
Where's the money?
So the guy died on him.
So the- the good guy, he didn't die.
So he say,  here,  don't die on me now.
All the water you can drink.
Here's all the water you can drink.
So he took him to this monastery,  and uh  had him all healed up you know.
Cause he was all peeled up and chapped up and stuff.
And er uh  he took care of him until they nurse him back to health.
And they all went to this grave.
But before they went to the grave,  they was  riding together,  and here come- they thought was uh Confederate troops.
And uh  they were Yankee troops  because the dust on 'em, you know.
He just  started he-  they was h-  hollering,  Hail to Lee!
Hail to Lee!
But he just  start brushing off his blue uniform .
And er uh  they  took them on in this uh  compound of concentration, and er uh  they served time there.
So this other-  the Sergeant there,  he knew about it.
And he wants to know which one  knew where the grave was at.
So what he done, he took the Ugly,  he whipped him and made him tell who know about it,  so that only leave the Good.
So they took the Ugly on the-  on a train  to have him locked up in some other compound somewhere else.
And so he managed to escape  and er uh  meet up with them in another town.
And s-  so these two got together again, the Good and the Ugly, they got together again,  and they killed off all the men,  what the bad guy had,  and after they killed all of the men that the bad guy had then  they went to the grave together,  And they all showed up there together one by one, and so uh  the Good guy told uh,  the Bad and the Ugly said,  If you want  to know where the money is at,  we gonna have to have a show down for it, he said, I'm'a write it on this rock.
And he said, who remains alive, will know where it's at.
So they all  got in their position for the draw.
So what the Good guy do- did,  he took the  Ugly guy that night they was riding to the grave site,  he took the Ugly guy, all his bullets out and jammed his chamber  cause he knew he was faster.
And  so when they all  went for the draw, he was the first to draw but he couldn't shoot, so the Good shot-  shot the Bad guy  and that  left him and the Ugly remain.
So he  aks him say, what uh-  where is the money at?
It was the grave of the unknown.
That was- that was  where was the money at.
And they dug it up  and so before uh he- the Good guy knew,  the Ugly guy was going to uh  kill him, you know, if  he didn't do nothing about it, so after he dug u- after the  Ugly dug up the money,  the Good guy  put a rope around his neck and stand him up on the-  on-  on one of the crosses that they-  hid in the ground, on sticks you know?
Oaks?
And stood him up on that with a rope around his neck of- hanging from a tree,  and he rode off a couple,  I'll say  few feet  away from him  and then he shot him down and rode on, but it was really good movie.
I never forget it.
That's the best western I've really seen in such a long time you know.
Well I really can't say what's the be- but this is the one, this  movie is the best movie I've ever seen Yes, I had a dog.
His name was Jackie, got ranned over by a car.
I cried like I was-   I don't know what.
I-  I was hurt over that for quite awhile.
No, other pets, I didn't uh  I didn't uh have.
Well in school, I'll tell you about my subjects there.
English class I di- I didn't like too much because it was uninterested.
I like the Science class and the M-  Math class because I liked to work with figures and  always wanted to know what different kind of animals and stuff was and stuff like that.
And er uh  The study period, it was-  it was okay  I coulda  go into the library and read  certain books.
And I was always wanna look for a little sex book, you know words.
You know a little, little words you know.
And er uh  then I wanted to uh  becoming  join the music class, take away my study period and get into music class, so I uh went to music class for about, I'd say about one or two semesters.
And I dropped out of that because I got uninterested in it.
That's when they first started the football  at our high school at the time.
And then, naturally, I  always liked the rugged stuff you know and- and I put the down and I went and um joined the football team because I was too small for the basketball  in the first place.
So I finally got into the football,  and er uh the thing about it uh  I was the runner, now I was- that was really trying  just hearing the girls screaming when I catch a pass and run across the goal.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Oh yes indeed.
I was a pretty good runner too for m-, you know for my  size.
I was  pretty fast.
I weighed- I say I weighed about a hundred and twenty pounds then.
Oh we had one teacher there, RD-NAME-4.
He was really something.
He was  really by the book guy, you know.
He- When you get in there, you have to be in attention all through his cla-, hi- his- uh sessions you know.
I didn't really like him and uh  the Science class.
Well, he was a good friend of my father.
Well they was in the Navy together,  stuff like that and uh I really did liked him because he was, then he became a preacher around in the community also, you know and He was just a real lovable type guy and I really was interested in going to his class, and I like math because my teacher was real pretty you know.
And then-  I didn't have to sit in the back of the class, I always sit up front in that class you know?
Cause I just liked to look at her all day.
Oh you sit wherever you wanted to sit at.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And uh-  in this, er, uh, history class,  RD-NAME-3, she was the type on uh semester day, she would wear these soft shoes to sneak up on you to see if you uh copying or something of the type you know.
She was really slick, and when she'd catch you, she'd just ring your ears like that you know, it- Mmh!
Yeah, put tacks in the seat,  glue, and all that kind of stuff.
Principal, he would- the- she would send us down to the principal office.
He probably would expell you for a day or two or make you get out there on the school ground and pick up papers uh-  Just any miscellaneous stuff or clean the-  the  men's restroom.
Just any  janitorial work.
Oh well, what I do for recreation now well  well I goes to- sometime I goes to night clubs  just for the dancing.
I love to dance, and I like  all of th- this latest stuff you know.
Like the Duck and this and that, I ca- Oh, oh yes indeed.
It don't take me long to - I just do- could just watch just for a couple of 'em and I-  I can get out there and kind of  do it just-, just about the same way they.
Mm-hm.
I just- just- I just concentrate on what they're doing in the foot movement.
And I could just see, like the back and forth or the cross or something like that.
I could  just  concentrate for a couple of dances, and I can  be able to do it.
No, this about anywhere I goes to.
Uh  it could be strangers to me or something, they  so the girls too.
I mean I just-  to me, it- just having fun because um, I'm a music lover also, you know.
I love music.
No, but I ever did love uh music.
Well I could-  I won't say really master it, but  like a little drums,  little piano, I could you know, do a little something.
Mm-hm.
Mostly I  would like to do, you know sing- I sings a lot you know.
No.
Really, they don't speak any different languages.
Well I know one that uh  does.
He speaks Spanish,  but er uh, you could tell his accent.
He speak English, but he can speak Spanish.
Well  I'll say  it all depends.
I like  parties, like you have house parties, weekend parties at somebody's apartment.
Well, it- it be mixed up all kinds a way- everybody just-  just be there having a good time.
That's- that's all it be.
Oh, one- one try to be.
He was-  him and I used to share an apartment once, but uh to me, he has an attitude.
I mean the way, it may not mean nothing-  he may not mean nothing bad, but it just the way he talks you know?
Cause he'll  say something like uh,  uh, get up and get me a can of beer.
I say, hell, who you think you're talking to you know?
You know, I mean you know.
Yeah, like tell me uh, go to the store.
I was like, what's wrong with him?
You know, like it's both his legs or arm broke or something, you know.
And uh, him and I couldn't get along together because I didn't ever did like a person with a nasty attitude, you know because  I'm always the friendly type, uh,  likes to have conversation where you sit down and talk, uh have fun, talk about something else, you know, but that hollering and screaming now- he really try to be  the leader.
Think he  dominates  you know.
I didn't ever did like it.
I would be a musician by profession.
I'm thinking about the cash money and the nighttime life, all the fun and all the girls.
Mm-hm.
All the time.
Mm-hm.
Well, all depends.
Sometime the groups  that I don't uh  like, I don't go to see them.
Like uh, it's a couple of 'em there now like Peaches and Herb.
I like those.
Jerry Butler, I like him.
Uh, but the rest of 'em with these unidentified names, I don't have no use for 'em, you know, uh.
They make but one record, and you hear no more about them.
Then they comes in and they sing other people  music, you know uh,  they do the whole show of other people's stuff.
Now Mr.
James Brown, now I really likes him.
I'll be in DC Stadium Sunday.
That's where he gonna be, over there.
Mm-hm.
Uh, I think it's uh from-  I think it start at  two or three o'clock, I'm not-  I'm not positive the time.
N- this is a benefit for the charity for the  poor people camp, Children Hospital he's doing this.
Mm-hm.
I think it start between two or three o'clock.
Oh, it's gonna be- it's gonna be packed.
Yeah people be all the way from Baltimore here.
All of-  d-  down in Virginia, like Manassas,  Fairfax County,  um  Baltimore, Maryland.
They gonna be from everywhere here.
They-  I believe he would- I b- I bet he'd get a crowd of about, I'll say about forty thousand.
I bet he will.
Cause every time he come to the Howard Theater he bes there for a week.
You have a line, a double line, going around to the next block.
Everyday.
And he does three shows a day.
Well summertime and holidays, I gets together with a guy that I know, and we gets a couple of girls maybe and we go out to the beach uh  somewhere  t-uh-  take a little- pack a little picnic lunch.
Go down in Rock Creek Park, you know,  get about a case of beer or something, and we just  go out there and have fun, that's all.
Well, Christmas m- usually it  doesn't seem like a real Christmas anymore, since sh-  you know you growed up you know, it's  more of a kid matter, but  I celebrates it you know, like  we all go from different  house to house, people that we know.
And  we'll have a drink here, have a drink there.
You know, it's the that's the jolly of the thing, you know?
New Years,  same thing, and uh  like Christmas Eve, we'll go to have a big dance that eve, and then we-  from the dance, like get out about two, three o'clock in the morning.
Then we go to somebody apartment and finish off til the  daylight comes or something like that.
Man, I got a brand new Columbia bicycle.
Mm!
I ever did want dreamed of one,  and I finally got one.
Yes indeed.
I was crazy about it because it was back when they-  when they came out with I think it was- was  forty eight.
When you tapped the breaks and the back light would, ch- jumps on and aw man, that's- that's the year I had one.
Mm!
It was really something.
You should seen it, I used to wash it and shine every day  until it got kind of old, you know but .
Oh, we uh  goes out there, we  get all the stuff on our face, you know, and  if you don't have a mask or nothing of the kind like that, just get any kind of old costume.
I probably put on a l-  on a lady's dress with a hat or something of the kind uh.
And a handbag, you know, high heel shoes on.
We'd go around the- from door to door cause they'd give us chocolate bars or any kind of candy that they, those soft mallow candies and stuff like that.
Well, I really can't say uh- Oh, when we had an accident once uh,  we just  all  partying you know, and  coming from the beach.
The driver was lit up, we was lit up,  and we turned over on this bridge.
And we  turned over three times and bent the rail.
Just a little bit more impact of it, and we would have dropped about a hundred and fifty feet down in water.
That's the only thing really scared me.
Mm-hm.
This- this really scared me, and another thing that scared me, I was sitting up at the nightclub here about- Cecilia's night club,  about, I'll say about  it's been about three weeks ago.
And this girl came in there,  and she and this guy got to arguing.
They arguing over my shoulder.
She pulls out a German luger.
I'm sitting right there in the middle.
He pulls out a twenty five automatic.
Oh you should seen everybody got out of there.
I got out of- I dropped to the floor.
I fell back and dropped to the floor.
Let them shoot each other.
Huh?
She- she sho- shot somebody.
I don't know really, say I gotta there.
I didn't want to know.
That r- that really scared me.
I looked this way, she got a German luger.
I look this way, he got a twenty five automatic.
I got out of there.
Well, it- I got so used to seeing uh  things like this.
Like people getting sh- shot,  cut up,  stuff like that.
Li- th- like the funniest thing I seen once  but I didn't know they was that serious.
Two guys  right here down here on Ninth and O, which is a dangerous place.
I don't even hang out around there.
But this- at this particular time, I seen it,  they tied each other  with a leather belt,  they wrist together, and pulled out they blade, and they start cutting each other, and cut each other to death.
I never seen nothing like it.
And I s- I say another thing I seen.
I seen a guy got shot over a penny in a crap game.
One penny.
Mm-hm.
Well I've been around  in the  rough sections of  places,  you know.
But I always  maintain my cools.
I don't go there.
I don't get hot headed.
If a guy  say uh, look buddy, or he wants to start a frolic, I said, look,  I say, I don't wanna  have nothing, no fight, or no frolic, or nothing like this.
I say,  doesn't make no sense to me.
I say, this kind of stuff, we could talk over.
I say, after all, I didn't did anything to you.
You came up to me wanna say something.
Like, know you  sitting down, a guy he come by, and  he probably might-  my feet might have been in the aisle a little bit too much.
He trip.
You know, what you trying to do?
Mash it off or something?
or you know, so.
No, any little, some  people just go around just trying to make excuse  just to start something, you know.
But I never did, you know,  like it.
Go for it really.