Dolls.
Um, since I had brothers I played with their toys.
The trucks and the cars.
Jacks.
Yes.
Um,  Video Village.
Monopoly.
Um,  Life.
Barbie.
That's all  I can remember.
Um,   Hopscotch  and   uh, what was it?
Chinese Jump Rope  with the rubber bands.
Um,  you have  three people, and two people stand  with rubber bands that have been  woven into a long string  between their legs, and you jump in,  back and forth across the-  with the  rubber bands around your legs.
Well the person that made the least mistakes,  um, they would-  Since there were two lines of-  of rubber bands when the people put their legs between, you couldn't touch the other one  when you skipped over- over it.
So the person who did it the longest without touching the other one  won.
Yeah.
The Cowboys and Indians.
Um,  well the boys down the street- I was the only girl on my block,  so we used to play  Cowboys and Indians, and I was the Indian princess that was always rescued  by the cowboy or something.
Hm.
Um,  I don't watch much TV  during the week, but I watch the movie.
Saturday night  movies and  and the movies during the week  cause they're better this year  then they've ever have been.
Um, To Kill a Mockingbird,  I like that one.
Well,  it was about  these two little children that lived in the South  And their father was a lawyer,  and he had to defend  a Negro in the case of rape.
And it was how they  felt about this, and how the town  felt towards them.
And it was told by the little girl in the story.
That was it.
No, we had-  We were supposed to watch it for Spanish, and I forgot .
Oh.
Yeah.
Um,    mystery stories mostly,  and I r- like to read the  late-  latest  books that come out that are on the  best selling list.
Um, well I just got The Naked Eight today.
And I've read The Gabriel Hounds  by Mary Stewart.
And The Confessions of Nat Turner.
And um,    uh,  Rosemary's Baby.
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's that-  It had a very shocking ending, and    I don't know.
I thought it was weird.
I thought it was a good book.
And then I saw the movie, and I thought the movie was good too.
Yeah.
Well, it- it went very along-  It went very well along with the book.
Followed the book very closely,  and I think Mia Farrow was good in it.
Shocking, just like the book.
Well I've had three dogs, two of 'em ran away.
Well one was stolen, and one ran away.
And then um,  I had  a bird that my father stepped on,  and she died.
She used to walk on the floor all the time, and one day my father came in, and my mother hadn't told him that she was on the floor.
And he stepped on her.
And at first she-  she was alright, but then when- After we put her in the cage, evidently her lungs were crushed.
She died.
Well he felt kind of bad, and he felt kind of bad because I felt bad.
So that was worse.
Uh.
Sidwell Friends.
It's a private school on Wisconsin Avenue.
Well,  it's-  it's like  a regular school.
Son-  Well we have more freedom at  Sidwell, but uh,  they have at public school and a lot of other private schools.
Get to wear what we want to school.
Um,  we get to select our courses  with the aid of a teacher, but  um,  we get to take what we want to.
We-  we um-  They give us-  These sheets show what's required for colleges and then we can choose when we wanna take them, what years.
And um-   Oh,  Spanish  for  four years.
English.
Um,  first I took  two courses in Algebra.
Then I-  Now I'm taking Geometry.
And  I'm  taking    Biot-  Biology,  History, and now I'm taking Chemistry.
A junior.
Well we're all different.
I mean, um,    I don't know.
Um, since there very few kids in school - There are three hundred and sixty  kids from the ninth grade to the tenth grade, so we're s-  all pretty close.
We all know each other.
And   I don't know.
We're  happy.
Sometimes.
Most of the time.
Um-  no, we don't really have that many  requirements.
We have to come to school.
Um, we have a-  a system where you don't have to go to study hall.
Um, they have this room set up, where  whereas where we can talk together and fool around instead of  going to study hall during our free periods.
It's not very strict.
Um, from  um, twenty after eight  to  five minutes after three, and we  usually have sports  until four o'clock.
Ik-  Unless you're on a team,  and then it's til four thirty, four-  four days a week after school.
Oh, millions.
There's a um,    a club for every Spanish  department.
There's a Science Club.
Um,  there's a quarterly,  which is  stories to write.
You know, you write stories, and they make up in a magazine.
We have a newspaper, and a newspaper staff.
Have a Music Club,  big club.
Orchestra.
Um,  various little things.
Urban Affairs.
And everything that has  been made up.
Um, well we have a d- board of directors, and the headmaster's Mr.
Smith.
I don't know who's really the big man of the school, but each school- There are three schools, three buildings, the Upper School,  Middle School and the Lower School,  and they each have different principals.
So.
It's Quaker.
Mm-hm.
No.
Very few  of the kids that go there are Quaker, but we have to t-  observe Quaker    um,  the Quaker religion.
Like we have to have  silent meeting for worship  once a week for forty five minutes.
And um,  we aren't allowed to-  to hire bands,  and then have people come in and pay  to hear them and the little things like that.
Um,  Kindergarten.
Yes.
Um,  it's rather difficult.
Um,  they have certain- I don't know what the requirements are really, but I know  I got in, and my little brother got in.
But  my  other brother didn't.
So-  but he would've gotten in, but they wanted to  put him back a year.
And he didn't want to go back a year, so he didn't go.
No I've just been there three years.
I went to a public schools up through eighth grade.
Oh yes.
Um,  the junior high school I went to, Jefferson, it was very strict.
And  the um,  way that they got you to work was by fear.
I mean they threatened you all the time  about what you had to do and what you didn't have to do,  and it wasn't very effective.
It just made the people  scared, and we had to wear  pleated skirts and blouses.
The pleated skirts had to come  half way down  the middle of our knee.
And they had  stupid rules, like when you wore  a wrap around skirt, you had to sew up the part  that was wrapped around.
Where at Sidwell, we can wear anything we want.
And- Yes.
And um,  the principal was bleh.
She- she was a-  a spinster.
And I guess she took it out on all of us.
I don't know why, but  um,  at Sidwell,  they don't  force you- I mean, we know what we have to do.
They tell you, and it's sort of up to you.
They'll help you  to an extent, but you have to do it yourself if you wanna do it.
And if you don't, you just don't stay at the school very long.
No.
Um,  if you're doing very- b- well,  if you're failing everything, I think you leave.
Or they'll request that  they think you'll do better at another school.
Um,  but  there's no-  I mean, you-  If you-  They'll help you if you're doing badly.
They won't just turn you out, but  sometimes after a couple years, if they find that you just can't do the work,  they'll suggest that you go to another school.
Well,  I have a Spanish teacher who's  um- He's new this year.
And he's very young.
And he thinks  he knows everything.
Maybe he does, I don't know.
But I've had  the other Spanish teachers in the-  in the department, too and  they'll tell us one thing, and he'll tell us another.
Then when we tell him what they've told us, he gets very upset.
And like,  um,  there were two-  two ways to speak Spanish.
There's Castillian and the other way.
And I talked in this other way and evidently he didn't like it.
He thought it was wrong, so he told me it was wrong, and I told him it wasn't wrong.
He got very mad, and I thought he was going to hit me about it, but  he didn't, and then he apologized later.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
I don't know.
I think all my teachers are kind of bad.
I can tell about the worst one.
Uh,  we had a math teacher last year, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2, and she was very old.
She  never did  anything right.
I mean,  we  knew more math than she did.
She'd tell us something,  and then we could say one thing.
She'd get very confused, and she'd have to start from the very beginning again.
And nobody really liked her.
She was fired at the end of the year.
I don't know whether we had anything to do with it  cause everybody was dissatisfied.
The parents were, cause we really weren't learning anything.
I mean we were-  Some were failing and some were getting A's,  but nobody knew anything at all.
Well,  for- Um, no.
What is it?
April Fool's Day.
We all get together and play tricks.
Um,  I don't know, it was- Some- At a certain time we'll all stand up and salute the flag, or-  or something weird but  usually there's a group  of boys in each class that-  that ha-  get fun out of doing these tricks.
In our class, a lot of 'em were put out last year.
Cause they went too far.
But last year,  the senior boys,  a couple weeks before school was out,  just wanted to take the-  the-  the  ringers off the bell, so that they wouldn't ring, but they broke the  bells and did three thousand dollars worth of damage to the bells.
And then,  um,    we- They-  We get- We have announcements every morning that they send around about what's going to happen during the day,  and  one day  the boys sent around these fake announcements that looked very real.
And there was supposed to be- They said there was supposed to be an assembly during one of the periods that usually there were classes.
So everybody went over to the gym and waited around, and  missed half a period waiting for the-  for the um,    for the assembly, but it never came on .
So they got in trouble for that.
Yeah-   Well, in our school, there's-  there's-  I don't know.
There- there used to be a lot of  cliques, but now  I don't know.
They've sort of separated  because they're-  I don't know.
In the last couple of years, we've all become such good friends.
In our- In my class, there's  about  fourteen girls that stay together all the time.
And then there about  two or three boys that go along with this group, but  um,  we're all together.
We're all friends, so- It's not any real separatism.
Oh, well we have- We go to the movies together.
We um,  have pajama parties,  and w-  Usually  on Saturday or Friday nights we go to somebody's house and do  anything.
Just to  you know,  do something instead of sitting at home.
No.
Um,  there's-  there's-  there's never been that  in the girls.
But, in the boys,  there w-  Um, last year  year,  there was one boy who dominated the boys, and they always got in trouble, but he left.
They put him out the end of the year cause it was getting out of hand.
So, yeah, that ended.
No um, in our class, there's only boy that's foreign.
His mother and father are- are from the  Chinese Embassy I think.
I think he is the ambassador of China, but he does-  Um, I've never heard him speak.
He speaks perfect English, so I don't really know if he's- really talks the language or what.
Mm-hm.
Um,  We're all mix, um, except-  Well,  there are no  Japanese or Chinese  in our group.
Just Negros and whites, and that's all.
Washington and Maryland and Virginia.
Mm-hm.
Um- Well,  I don't know they really j-  just have to be  outgoing and nice.
I mean  they can be-  They have to be likeable.
I mean we don't  like  snotty people  who think they're better than others,  and  I don't know that-  Um,    I know we talk about some of the other girls in our class, but  we don't really-  When we talking about them to someone  out of the group, or-  or- We don't ever  talk ab-  down to them.
I mean, we'll-  we'll talk about them, but not in a very  hurt-  hurting way.
I don't-  I don't- We don't like that.
Mm-hm.
A lawyer.
I don't know.
I don't know the- the first thing about becoming a lawyer .
I'll just have to keep going to school I guess.
Now?
I don't know.
I just- One day I said I wanted to be a lawyer.
Going to court.
Talking to a jury.
Persuading a jury.
Mm-hm.
Um,  no, this summer I worked  um,  as a counselor at a camp.
That's all.
Um, I worked ar- up the street at uh,  at the school at  the elementary school, and they have a-  a nine to twelve day care program during the summer  for kids three to six.
And we have to pick up some-  We have a list, and we have to pick up some of the kids and  walk them to the school, and then walk them back home afterwards.
And we just- We have to feed 'em  juice and cookies.
We play with 'em, and then we p- p-  put 'em in the sprinkler.
And then  we bring 'em home.
Oh,  no.
We put a sprinkler out in the street.
You can attach it to the fire house.
And they play in that.
And they have to be-  bring their towels and their bathing suits, and they-  and they lie down in the street.
The street's um,  blocked off during that part of the day.
Well we didn't really play games.
We played on the  gym equipment.
And then,  there were boy counselors, and they would take them-  take the boys down on the-  on the field to play  a weird kind of tackle football.
I mean it wasn't really tackle football, and the girls, I don't know.
We'd read stories to them.
That was about all.
Most of the time we spent consoling them that they weren't with their mommies.
Um, there was one African little girl there that didn't talk any English.
And um, I don't know any African.
N- n- nobody else did either, so  her sister's- No, I speak Spanish.
Um, her sisters used to always-  They were too old to be in the program, but they- they were always there.
So this little girl, she cried all the time.
She never stopped crying, and it- She  couldn't tell anybody what was wrong, so we always had to  ask her sister to interpret for us what she was saying.
That was the only way we found out.
Mm-hm.
Um,  all of them.
Except Chanukah.
Um,   I don't know.
We stay home.
I think we have a- more of a Valentine's holiday than anybody.
We have hearts on the tables  and sometimes,  um, my father and my brother give my mother and I presents.
And    I don't know.
It just seems  like we get  um,  presents for nothing.
I don't know.
It's a small holiday.
We're spoiled, that's all.
Um, for Christmas?
Well usually  I go to a party every night,    and we celebrate Christmas day.
And my grandmother comes over, stays during the holiday, and um-  Well this year  I wanna go away- I don't usually go away during the Christmas holidays, but this year I wanna go to New Jersey.
So- And my brother wants to go to North Carolina.
My mother wants to go to Mexico, so I don't know what we're gonna do.
We'll probably go somewhere.
My cousin lives in New Jersey, and I go up there during the summer, and she comes down here during the summer,  so she wanted me to come up this summer because she couldn't come down here this summer.
I mean she wants me to go  up this Christmas, cause she didn't get to come down here this summer.
Elizabeth, New Jersey.
I don't know.
Um, some other girls,  we play tennis during the summer.
And girls that play tennis, um,  they're also coming.
So, I don't know.
We'll find something to do.
Um,    I don't know.
Oh dear.
I don't have- Well,  I usually want things, but not  I don't know.
Usually things that I wa- really want,  I get them before Christmas  probably.
Um,  I remember one Christmas I got  a huge  stereo record player .
And I like that one.
And then the next Christmas,  I got a portable record player and a tape recorder,  which surprised me entirely cause I just-  I hadn't even asked for either one.
So,  that was nice.
Well we have a beach house, and w-  um, there are no- In Arundel on the Bay, Maryland.
It's right outside of Annapolis, and there are no electrical outlets down on the beach.
So, um, we take  the record player  and go down to the beach.
Well, no, um,    well li- like last summer  in-  July fourth, and  couple of days before and a couple days after,  I was playing tennis in a tennis tournament.
And then  two weekends after that,  I played here in a tennis tournament.
Then,  we went down to the beach, and we stayed down there for a couple weeks.
And then we went to Texas for a week.
And then we came back home.
We went back down to the beach, and that was all.
Well,  um,    no.
Well,  I always think about dying.
And about my parents dying, or something happening to 'em or some-  Since um, this summer  and the riots and everything and people getting- I've been terribly afraid of that.
And- But, I'm never um,  been afraid, like if something happened that I'd be killed.
Except- Oh yeah.
When I go on a airplane, I'm terribly afraid that it's gonna  blow up, and I always think about  in airplanes that  um,  do blow up, if the people ever thought of the fact that it might blow up before it blew up.
Um, bef- The first day  that they started, I was at school and we got out of school at twelve thirty, cause um,  it was some report about  people coming up to the schools and tearing up the schools or something like that.
So um, we got out early and I got a ride home somewhere.
It's on Wisconsin Avenue  um,  just up from Georgetown.
And um,  I never-  I went down afterwards, but I never went down  in that area during it.
My mother and father did.
Cause-  My grandmother works down in the government, and she was  right in the middle of the whole thing.
She was down on K Street, trying to catch a cab.
And she called home to get my father t-  to come get her, so my father goes down there  in all that mess.
M-  She had called my mother evidently first, and my mother hadn't called to see if my father is going, so she goes down there too.
And it was a whole mess, and then  I don't know.
I-  I- For awhile I didn't hear anything from anybody and that scared me, but they got her and they came home.
Cry.
I don't know.
I don't-  Be terribly scared.
Um, well sometimes I believe in it,  like when I think about death.
If I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die.
But I'm scared.
Um,  I d-  I don't  know if I believe in predestination or not.
Sometimes I do and sometimes I don't, depends upon whether it's good or whether it's bad.
What's happened?
Wh- Um,    I don't know.
I guess what happens is gonna happen.
I don't know.
I n-  I never thought about it just like that.
I don't know.
Well I think I have some  say about what I do and what I don't do, but then I don't know if it's already been  destined  for me to say that I'm gonna do what I finally decide to do.