Oh, the usual childhood games,  hopscotch,  uh,  basketball,  baseball,  uh, kickball.
Uh, we used to play uh,  dolls, dressing up.
Uh,  used to like to hunt snakes  and uh,  catch bugs.
Well, uh, we used uh,  up to eight numbers,  and we would either use a piece of glass or a small pen, and  we would throw from one block to the other and try not to step in that block.
Well, I was fortunate enough to have a doll house  that was built for me out in my back yard, and the girls- little girls would come over  and uh, we'd bring our dolls over.
And we played.
We'd take the clothes off and give 'em a bath, and feed 'em,  and two or three days later,   the food was really smelly.
Yes.
Oh boy!
Well, some days it was pretty good, and then some days it was-  Between five and seven.
Well, that was my uh, first time going out to school, and this was a big adventure.
No,  uh, I would-  did get a chance to go a- a lot of places  at that age, more so than I was-  when I was older because  uh, they had special rates for children.
And uh,  this meant a big saving for my family.
Mm, not too much.
Not to my knowledge, I don't think so.
Well really, I don't know.
I- I really couldn't say.
Yes.
Well,  the last ones that said, not it,  they were the ones that had  to tag someone else, make them it,  And this went on and on and on, until we got tired.
No.
We ain't really have to say not it real quickly, and the last one that said it, they were it.
Uh, usually, we would uh, either draw straws  or uh,  the last hand on the bat if it was baseball.
Or we would um,  put,  you know, make fists, and do it in that fashion.
Basketball.
Well, in my uh,  childhood, I was the only  child  period.
So um,  it was a lot of boys in my neighborhood, and this seemed to be the same in uh,  the majority of the families at the time that I was growing up.
There was just  one child- even if it was only one girl, so we had to play with the boys.
And I think it was about-  about  four girls  out of the whole bunch, so we played with the boys.
Rough.
uh hm Yeah, that's all.
You know, we had to rock 'em and sock 'em.
Oh, I was pretty rough  to be a girl.
Yes.
Yes, um,    let me think.
Gee whiz, can't uh-  Oh, um,  one we used to play was uh, down in Mississippi where the boat goes push.
Used to play that.
And um- Well, that was- that was the rhyme.
Down in Mississippi where the boat goes push, and the one behind you would push.
You know, they had to come in the rope  just as you would say, push, then whoever was first,  they would say it, and then the one that was behind 'em, they had to push them when they said, the boat goes push.
And then they had one uh, that would say, one, two, and then the next one would come along, and say 'three, four' and you couldn't lose time.
You had to keep up.
I-  Well, uh,  we had one that uh,  would say um-  Oh gee, this is so hard  to think of.
Um,  I really can't think of any more.
Not-  You know, not in rhymed and uh, to think of the whole rhyme.
We had one that you would say the names of the month,  and then you would tell- We had one that you would tell the name of your lover.
Um- As much as I can, yes.
Yes.
Um,  I love Missions Impossible.
Oh, gee whiz.
I saw part of it last night  because I came in on the late part.
Uh, I did see one, um,    this has been about two weeks ago, uh-  Cinnamon  was, uh, captured, and they tried to uh, break her  um,  and um,  make her tell  why she was uh,  stealing some things from the safe.
And uh,  her uh, companions  attempted to uh,  get her free and eventually they did.
And then uh-  Oh yes, I remember last week's too.
It was about this uh, fella that had made this germ culture    from this deadly bacteria, yeah.
And um,    they- their- their mission was to destroy the bacteria, and which they did.
Well, um,    you know, the uh, fella Greg Morrison,  had um,  made all of the substitutes  through this uh, duck  that he had uh,  cut in the wall.
And uh,  in this lab, you know, I like- You're in an- in an atomic lab.
You  work with the arms.
Well, this fella would push the arms, and of course they- they would pick up the subsitute instead of the real thing, and they would switch 'em!
And um,  can't think of the little shark nosed guy's name,  but uh,  he was the guinea pig,  and um,  they thought that he was really being effected by uh-  by the uh-  bacteria, but he wasn't because it had been substituted.
And uh, soon as the same duck,  uh, they had put this explosive in,  and it looked like a culture but it wasn't, and this is how the uh, culture was destroyed.
And the man's uh- His whole set up was  blown up.
Mm.
No-  Um,  well I sit down and watch a lot of things with the children.
I'm not particularly interested in 'em.
And that's uh, That Girl and uh, Bewitched, and on Monday nights I like to look at the Big- Big Valley.
That is one of my programs.
No.
No, I uh, have gone to some of the children's matinees out at Shady Grove, but- nothing for myself.
My children love those things.
Well, they like musicals.
Uh, like they want to see the Sound of Music three time.
And um,    they like live plays because during the summer when I can take them to the uh, children's shows, they like to go.
And it's going to be quite costly, but I plan to take them to see Charlie Brown.
Going to look at that.
No.
Can't have- We can't have pets in the house.
Yes.
No- I owned a  police dog  when I was  a child, and he died from old age.
Oh,  ever since I could remember, you know, from being a little tot.
And uh, when he died, he was about uh,  about twelve years old.
We had to put him to sleep.
Well I didn't go, so it didn't-   You know,  It's just like he had ran away.
Well, no.
He was more or less my protection because um- Oh!
I loved him.
But- Um- I'm not saying I was a little devil, but   I used to do quite a few things,  and I c-  I could never get a spanking with him around.
Oh oh So I wouldn't worry about it.
Huzzah.
Yes.
I went to Payne  and Lovejoy.
I went to Brown and Langley, and I went to .
I started there  at the age of four, and I sbees-  See-  I went up  to the fourth grade because they were two crowded so I had to to take- do the fifth and sixth grade over at Lovejoy.
Oh I loved  to go to Payne school.
Uh, that was  in my neighborhood,  and it was around my friends.
So, um,  although making new friends is  you know, always a new adventure, it- Old friends are the best.
Well,  let's see that was more of a general thing.
I think it was uh-  I would say to me, it was uh,  dec- a deciding point then.
It would-  It was the course- The courses that I took helped me decide what I wanted to do.
You know, for Senior High, and how I wanted to prepare myself.
Uh,  the Commercial Art,  um,  the Typing, and uh, the language I did take um, Latin.
And I continued on with that.
but.
No.
No.
It's my interests.
Well, really I don't think that um,  that was the most uh,  impressive thing.
Uh,  the thing that I wanted to do  uh, I did it.
You know, I went in to see what I could absorb, not-  I mean the teacher d- didn't have anything to do with it.
You know, whether I liked or disliked her The thing of it that I wanted to was to master the subject,  and that was it.
Yeah.
I haven't the faintest idea.
I mean- I really think it depends on how well you  grow,  especially emotionally.
It's how well you grow it- You really can reach the point where you said, I know where I'm going and know what I want to do, then  I think you've reached the peak of your life.
No.
Uh, my mother and father  were separated,  and my mother uh,  never went passed grade school.
So she wasn't any help to me at all.
I-  I- Well, um, there isn't anyone that I can say that  inspired to me do anything.
I um,  spent uh,  the majority of my time alone by me being an only child, and um,  my mother was quite strict  so I had to resign myself  to doing one thing or the other.
And uh, this is what I did.
And so I can put my finger on it  and can really tell you about it.
Mm-mm.
Nothing really did.
I mean I- I knew I had to get it  because of the fact that my mother was so strict.
You know I couldn't go anywhere.
So I knew I had- I had to get it, I wouldn't dare bring a poor mark home.
You know, I had to bring-  A m-  You-  Anything I did,  the best was expected of me.
So I just made up my mind, I was gonna do it.
Hm.
Uh,  well before I got to the fourth grade,  um,  I played.
You know, we didn't have  a great deal of- of uh, homework,  and uh, I played.
And  to me, um, school wasn't too difficult.
And um,  if we had a little assignment, it didn't take me more than a half an hour or forty five minutes, and I was through.
And uh,  I- I did like to sew.
I used to sew a few fingers.
But uh, I'd get a blouse or something made.
Mm-hm.
No, I did all the little things you know, that uh, children do.
I was a little devil I suppose.
Or devilish at times, you know.
No, I wasn't goody goody either.
No.
No.
No, uh, not unless it was a group thing,  but not individually, no.
I have never uh, disliked anyone to that point.
Never.
I have never met a person like that.
I must say.
And if, I  do meet someone and um,  if the feeling is leaning toward that way, I-  I do my very best to-  to change it.
You know, to divert that because I think it's uh-  It's horrible to hurt any- You know, to uh,  hate anybody.
Um.
Well, they can be pretty rough.
But uh- Um.
Well, some of them are pretty arrogant,  but uh,  I look upon this as uh,  this is their- Like they use the slang- This is their hang up.
You know.
They just can't help it.
But uh- uh- um- Everybody doesn't look at things the way I do.
I found this as I was passing along the way.
Oh yeah.
My second grade teacher was my favorite teacher.
I will never forget her.
I just fell in love with her,  and I think she fell in love with me too  because uh, we um,  would be together even  after school hours.
She was  very much like a mother to me.
Well, to me she was my ideal lady.
She just uh- She just said,  and she did, and her tone of voice was just the way  you know, I wanted  to be talked to, and she treated me the way I wanted to be treated.
So this is it.
No.
Uh, she never told me what to do.
I don't think so either.
Um,  I don't know how to describe this feeling, but  anything I wanted to do,  you know,  if uh,  I felt real about it,  you know, I  would attempt to do it.
I'd go right along.
You know, I was  an individual person.
Mm.
Yeah well my- my daughter's like that.
Uh,  I will try to guide her  about things that I notice that she's  a pretty strong person,  and she knows exactly what she wants to do, and she goes right along and she does it.
And um,  I might even holler at her about  something I feel that she's doing wrong,  well she'll stop,  but she'll fix  some way to get around,  you know, doing this particular thing that I don't want her to do.
And she does it.
She's ten.
Yeah, she does it.
Nine.
Mm-hm.
No.
It's a boy and a girl.
No, um,  I only have one friend,  Lily, a real old  very good- good friend,  and I grew up with her.
And,  we um,  go out on Saturdays.
We will do our shopping or we'll  take the children and go  various  places.
This is it.
No.
I- I think we break even.
Yeah.
I really do.
I really think we break even  because uh,  sometimes she'll call up,  and she'll say uh,  well, let's go uh,  out to some place like Kleins today.
And I'll tell her, well I don't have to any money, so I'll window shop.
She said, well there's something I want to get.
And if uh,  I want to go out.
She says, I don't have any money.
I'll window shop.
We'll go.
Or, uh, if we have to go some place that's uh, takes- takes a long  drive or a great  length of time,  uh, she and I both drive.
And we'll share the driving distance.
But we like to take the children to see things.
Yeah, well, uh, I don't live in that area now, but  I used to work with the uh,  RD-WORK-4 RD-WORK-2 Mm-hm.
I used to work with them,  and um,  then I moved out of the area, and I started um,  buying a home.
And I-  I was divorced then, but I've remarried, so  you know, I've moved downtown now, and I live in an apartment building.
And I know it's something going on in the uh, Sure Project,  but since I work the long hours that I do,  you know, I don't get a chance to participate.
Well, um,  they had um,  things going on up at the uh, school,  um, RD-WORK-2's School, that uh- like bake sales.
They had um,  where the parent would give free time.
They would have uh, special lunch  sales.
Uh, during the summer  uh, the church at Meridian- Yeah, it's RD-CHURCH-7- They had this uh, day camp  uh,  project going on during the summer,  and I would  uh,  be a helper with that.
And um- Uh, just um-  just sometimes because of my daughter liked to go um,  stay with her cousin,  and my son had asthma.
Well, he still has asthma, and he couldn't mix with everything and everybody.
So uh, just as um- Sure.
Used to live right across the street from her.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well I was there from uh,  sixty one until sixty five.
Mm-hm.
It is really intereseting.
I mean you- you have uh- you really have something to keep you occupied.
And it's not like you go and you meet the normal humdrum,  you know.
Each- each family has an-  has an individual problem, and it's nothing similar to the other.
And uh, it- it gets you out and- Mm-hm.
Well- No because uh, see,  my uh-  I feel that my freedom was really limited to  um,    I'll give you a for instance.
Now,  uh,  at the age of sixteen, I still had to be in the house by nine.
And uh,  I couldn't be out uh, anywhere after dark, whether it was nine o'clock or not, but if I went any place, I had to be in by nine.
And uh, like  girls would have pajama parties.
I couldn't go to those, and, if you went to a party, it's ridiculuous to think you were going to be home by nine.
So those were limited, too.
So after-  after uh,  those childhood days, I've-  I really started mixing.
You know, going out.
And I d- I didn't start to work until I was twenty one.
Well, that was a luxery.
Mm.
Let me think.
Uh,  yes.
Yes.
I will answer yes.
Yes.
Yes, I will answer yes to that.
Uh,  I didn't have a profe-  um,  a thought  about being anything professionally really.
I uh, just wanted to uh,  at that point, I just wanted to grow up  and be independent, and you know,  well-  well when I- I know, when I was smaller, I used to say I'd grow up, and I'm going to be a lady.
Cause that was anything, too.
I am a secretary to one of the buyers  for a chain of stores.
Not really.
It sounds big.
Ah.
Oo.
No.
Uh,  even with the shortcomings and the misgivings, I  wouldn't want to relive my life, and I wouldn't want to be anywhere than what- where I am now.
And what I'm in now.
Bip.
What is my favorite holiday?
Uh,  Christmas I think.
Well, um,  to me, Christmas is family time,  and  it's uh, the closeness and the spirit.
You know everybody's uh, rushing around  to get things for everybody else, and you know, you have more company then,  then you do any other time.
And everybody's in a gay mood.
No,  except we stay home and enjoy each other.
Mm.
Well, we have a tree.
We have a tree, and uh, lights in the window.
And uh, my children love to go to the tree and get candy and-  and cookies.
I  have an old fashioned tree-  put lots of junk on it.
May.
Like that.