Oh, I was telling you that, uh,  you know, we do thing like, you know, shoot pool, play basketball, and party together you know.
Yeah, they pretty good.
You know, teenagers come from like south- southeast, northeast,  northwest, and you know, be young ladies there.
N-  Party, you know.
You know, I partially do 'em, you know.
I'm not too good at it, you know, but I know, you know, how I look.
You know.
Nah, all the fellas I hang with speak English.
And maybe they might know a little bit of, you know, slangs, you know, like Pig Latin or something.
But  no language that, you know, like Germany or nothing like that.
Nah, all of them are, you know- colored boys.
It's not that, you know, we object to white boys.
Just that uh, in our environment, there aren't any, you know  white boys.
Well I really live in Southeast, you know, but I stay over my grandma's house on RD-ADDRESS-2 street sometime.
Not really, you know, like uh,  if one of us say, you know, I heard it's a party up town.
Come on, let's go.
And somebody say, well, you know, I heard there's one downtown.
Well we most like say, well, like uh,  well we go uptown first man, then we come back downtown, or  well I heard, you know, like the one uptown ain't gonna be nothing.
Let's go to the one downtown, you know.
We more or less do things together, you know.
Well you know, like uh-  First of all, you know, we probably see him like  somebody probably say uh,  you know-  He look like alright dude or something, you know.
And like, you know, might say,  you know, hey, how you doing?
and if he speak back, you know,  then, you know, might ask and say like, you just moved around here?
He say, yeah, you know.
We ask him where he used to live, and, you know, things he used to do.
And like, uh, you know, like we might be having a drink or something, you know.
Aks him if he want a drink, or tell him we going to a party so and so place.
Ask him do he want to go.
You know, and then,  as time goes on, if, you know, if everybody seem to like him,  then you know, he one of us.
But uh, like  if we say, well he a square.
He don't dig our style.
You know, like, he don't like to party.
He don't want to drink, or  you know, things like that, well, we might s- You know, he'll still be a friend of ours, but he won't be hanging with us.
Like we'll see him, and you know,  hey, how you doing?
and keep going, you know.
So um, but he's not, you know, one of us, you know.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, I'd do a whole lot differently.
Like, you know, for instance I'd uh, start school on the ball, you know.
I was on the ball, but  not together.
You know, I started school on the ball, I wouldn't have stayed- I wouldn't stay back in the fourth grade.
And uh, like  you know, uh,  like the raw- like the, you know, accidents I had happen to me.
Like, you know, when I was sixteen I got shot, you know.
I wouldn't go there so I can get shot again, you know.
And uh-  Uh, well you know, I was coming from a party on my sixteenth birthday.
You know, I was a little high on things, you know, and uh, you know, uh, we came past the skating rink, and a friend of mine had some trouble.
You know, like we fight together all the time, and uh, so you know, we was stopping to help him, you know.
And  everybody was, you know, fighting more or less like a free for all, you know.
And uh,  as things quieted down, you know,  it was a busload from Baltimore,  and as the bus pulled off, a boy shot out of the window two times, you know.
Shot me in my stomach.
And uh- Yes sir, and uh,  most of my friends, you know, had cars.
They tried to catch him, you know.
They caught the boy, you know, and  beat him up and things, you know, tried to hurt him, but the police got there, you know.
And the boy, he got five years from what I hear, you know.
I don't even know his name or nothing like that.
Yeah, I- you know, I really w- said my prayers and things at this time, you know.
I didn't cry or nothing, you know.
I was more like in a state of shock, you know.
But uh- No.
I didn't know what was happening, you know.
I just heard, you know, something, pow, pow, and you know,  didn't nobody around me believe I was shot neither, you know, til I pulled off my shirt.
Blood was, you know, coming out of my stomach and things.
It was burning, but you know, I was too scared to feel the pain, you know.
So I wouldn't say it was hurting, you know.
Like you cut your- you don't fall down or nothing.
I just knew it was a bullet in my stomach that could kill me, you know.
And that was the only thing, you know, I was thinking about.
Well you know, I often use this term myself, you know.
Like I say uh,  well you know, like  I went to skating rink, I got shot.
Like your mother might say,  well you had no business up there, you know.
And I say, well you know, I didn't know I was going to get shot, so whatever happened you know, was meant to happen, you know.
Like next year, something else will happen, you know, where  it won't- would you say be my fault that it happened, cause you know,  I figure, you know, it was meant to happen, you know.
I mean what I think we can, uh, like  avoid some of these things, like some of these things happen from our stupidity, but you know.
Like most of them, I say, like if I was to get up and  you know, trip dow- trip on the floor because, you know, I  neglected to move something, you know.
Well that's my fault, but uh, if I walk in the room, and don't know it's there and I fall, you know,  well, you know, just one of those things.
Yes sir, I was around here.
Yes it was, you know,  looting and things.
Well you know, at this particular time and things, when I finish school,  I want- You know, I want to make sure I get my high school diploma, and have the knowledge to go with it.
You know, and I wanna  you know, like when I think of going to school for four more years, you know,  it's not  like me to want to go to school for four more years, but  you know, I wanna go to college.
And  you know, more or less, you know, get what I'm'a want do in the future down, you know.
so I can, you know have, you know, a nice future and things ahead of me.
And uh,  you know, I just want to make it, you know.
Instead of going overseas in Vietnam and all that, you know.
Yeah.
Well, you know, like uh,  you could say like if one of-  one of us had a birthday, you know, where, you know, like  all the fellas might  you know, consider like, well we gonna get him drunk tonight.
You know, it's his birthday, you know.
And you know, give him a whole lot of booze and everything.
Like the same on Christmas.
You know, you might say, well this is Christmas, you know.
You know, you buy your family- Like your mother you buy this, your father-  maybe your little brothers and sisters, you know.
You get them a little something, you know, saying, you know, Merry Christmas, you know.
And then, you know, you more or less go out,  you know, you party, two or three in the morning or something, you know.
Get high, you know.
You know, where you can handle yourself.
I don't mean drunk like wine head or nothing, you know.
And you know, you just,  like you might sit up all night talking, and you know, just drinking, you know.
And so the next day, you know, you say, well, you know, I had a good time last night, you know.
Things like that.
You over do it more than you would any other day, you know.
Sir?
Yeah, we don't have to go to school today.
The teachers have some kind of meeting.
Yes, when I was young I use to celebrate Halloween.
Well you know, like  get a costume, or you know,  might find some old clothes at home, like pants too big for you, you know, like a hobo or something.
You know, used to put stuff on my face, and  get me a little bag.
Go knock on people's door, you know.
Say, trick or treat, you know.
But now that I'm older, you know, Halloween just another day, you know.
When I was young, you know, I used to get  you know, all clean on Easter.
Go to church, and uh,  might go to my aunt or my uncle's house for Easter.
You know, Easter dinner you might say.
then you know, I have my little Easter basket, or you know-  with eggs in it, you know.
but like now, you know, I still go to church on Easter Sunday, but uh-  you know, I don't really worry about, you know-  Easter eggs, and you know- things like that, you know.
When I come from church, you know, it's just another day.
yeah, they, you know, something, but I never even went to that, you know.
I- I used to go to zoo on Easter Monday, but you know, I don't even do that no more.
well, I'd say uh-  best Christmas present I- ever got, probably was uh-  bicycle to me, you know.
Yep.
Yeah, you know, I- See I came from a large family, so  you know, more or less things that other children had, you know uh,  you know, I was kind of handicapped.
You know, I could get them not-  not when they had 'em, you know.
I'd get it like two months later.
after my mother might have saved up, you know.
And on, you know, this Christmas I wanted a bike, because everbody else had one, and uh you know, I really didn't expect to get it, you know.
But uh, my mother, you know, she managed to get it for me, you know.
I was-  you know, happy and things.
Well this summer, you know, my job turn into a, you know, full time job.
Uh, you know, I  probably go to work in the morning,  get off from work.
You know uh,  I might take up a course in summer school, you know.
I doubt it, but I might, you know.
And uh, come- might come home from work, lay down, you know, take a nap.
Go out, you know, late at night.
Not late at night, you know, but about seven thirty or eight in the evening, you know.
And  just more or less, you know,  hang around, you know, something like that.
Yeah, I shoot alright, you know.
I wouldn't gamble no whole lot of money, but you know.
I shoot alright.
Yeah- Well you know, like a  this friend of mine, you know, me and him, you know,  we are, you know, tight like walk men, you know, and uh, we always argue about who shoot the best pool, you know.
And uh, one night, you know, we has a little money, you know, so we was gambling, you know.
And I, you know, I won all the money and things, you know.
I was, you know, glad about that, you know.
Well you know like uh,  I had shot several times, and you know,  ran out, you know, without missing, you know.
Yes sir.
You know, since I learned how to play the game.
You know,  you- Seven balls on the table that belong to you.
Seven are his, and uh,  the eight ball, you know, I- Several times, you know, I've shot out, you know.
You know, you know like-  I can, you know, like, I might luck a ball.
Or then, you know, I might make it off of skill.
All depends on where you make the cue ball stop at, you know.
For position, you know.
No- Yeah, I've seen him on a news reel one time when he was shooting pool,  you know.