How do we celebrate Christmas?
Oh are you talking about my age now?
Well wh-  when I was uh smaller you know younger  smaller younger, when I was younger you know we used to  well  Christmas time I think around Christmas Eve you know everybody had that yule tide  feeling you know.
What am I going to get for Christmas?
What is Daddy gonna get me, Mommy gonna get me  and we all would talk to one another you know all my friends you know, I'm gonna get this I bet  you know I'm gonna get this.
I know I'm gonna get this  you know I'm'a get me some guns, No I'll get a bicycle  I'll get a bicycle too, I would get a English Racer you know  four speed or seven speed you know  twelve speeds.
I'm getting the same thing that's what my father told me you know you always try and outdo the other fellas you know and uh  when Christmas night came you know  everyone took their bath and uhh  jumped in bed  you know.
Couldn't sleep, no.
couldn't sleep  you know cause we hearing the people downstairs you know and- and by that time you know we knew that there wasn't any Santa Claus you kne- we knew who Santa Claus was, you know but you knew something fishy was going on downstairs while you were upstairs, you understand  so what we used to do  all get together we say if you wake up first in the morning you wake me up or if I wake up earlier than you I wake you up.
We would wake up and come down and open gifts you know  see what we had  and we used to play until  it got light outside   cause we used to get up early you know.
My mother used to start cooking early around six-  around six in the morning.
Turkeys, pies, cakes.
Mm.
She's a great cook.
My father's a chef cook he's great too.
And uh  when  it got light outside we used to  get outside and start making noise  pretty soon everybody was out you know.
Uh we used to  make so much noise.
That's right.
Now- Nowadays you know when  you know grow up  and y'all get together and I'll go ahead and  socialize  you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Man   if somebody could do that  right now as bad as I need it.
First-  all the money I needed?
First,  I think I would remodel my mother's house,  buy my father a restaurant of his own.
Buy myself a liquor store or something  I can make a profit off of  you know cause the money's not  gonna you know  last forever you know.
Some kind of enterprise you know.
You gotta have some kind of enterprise, after that you know I would mess around blase around for I'd say about  uh well  two three years and  I would buy me a car you know  something like a  Cadillac  Eldorado  sports car.
Oh that's  fabulous.
Oh that's lovely you know I love that.
And I would buy me some- I would have a mean wardrobe, you know wardrobe?
Ah it'd be mean you know.
My wardrobe?
Oh    I hate to talk about it  I hate to talk about it  Ooh I would be  all different colors  different kinds of shoes you know like uh  Howard and Johnson  not Howard and Johnson talking about Johnston and Murphy's  shoes,  Rich's,  some suits I'd get me some suits.
sharkskin, silk,  oh.
I'd get me some suits, coats, y- I- everything you know, a whole complete wardrobe and I would just play it man you know  cool as a tack.
All the money I wanted?
Huh.
Think I'd be worried about it running out?
I'd be clean you know.
Ooh I would be matched up so pretty every day that  I don't know I think the newspaper m-  men might be just waiting for me to come out snap my picture you know when I walk time I come out they lay a copy down for me you know with a big cigar in my mouth, I went out talking trash, you know like uh uh what's his name?
Groucho Marx?
Oh that's a cool little cat  you know.
I digs Marx.
Come here  Come on, Pepper.
Come on, Pepper.
Stop it come on.
Call him over there, Ma.
Hey would you tell them to be quiet  please?
Have I?
Well I  had some very  peculiar happenings  happen-  you know happen to me.
For instance I used to get knocked down just about every day by a car or  something  you know  on my bicycle  A m-  as a matter of fact one time I was coming down a steep hill following the bigger guys you know,  my chain popped I had no brakes  and I got caught on the street car tracks.
I could see a car turning up and coming straight up the hill  I was waving at him to move  he wouldn't move.
he just  stopped.
and I came down and whammo.
That's all I remember I-I remember I was in the air like that.
Before I hit the ground I had fainted or something  you know unconscious until about  two days afterwards.
Uh  I accumulated some scars.
And  I was- you know how you get in the hospital man and you a  kid and you wanna be with the rest of the kids you and you getting real mad and you just saying I'm'a g- I'm gonna die, you know.
Nobody wanna come see me now because I'm gonna die, you know  you don't see your friends you know they- you figure they- that- that they know that you were gonna die you're not gonna make it  you know.
And then you know  you start feeling better you meet people at the hospital you know and you start  making your own friends there.
Cause people are sick you know still they wanna be friendly you know.
Cause they get well, and they get ready to go home just like you do.
I made a lot of friends in the hospital.
The nurses are nice  they were nice at the time I don't know about-  about now I don't know  about now uh  uh.
Uh to a extent I agree with that statement.
I know it's a superstitious  statement  but I agree with it to a- an extent.
If something happens you know you figure  with the older people  you know  I don't agree with it  one hundred percent.
I give about five percent.
Just when uh  you know everything's turned against me and I say you know I- it was gonna happen anyway you know.
it was meant  t- to happen to me cause everything else has happened you know.
But  take my mother for i-  instance you know  she would say  she's older you know  and older people are more s-  superstitious than the younger generation  or are  she might say, yeah, I knew it was gonna happen to you.
I knew it was gonna happen to you.
I don't doubt her  I'm- I'm- I'm- I'm- I'm- I'm not doubting her you know  cause sometimes I have heard her say- come on RD-NAME-1 stop the noise now  sometime I have heard her say uh  to my brothers you know,  if you don't stop this  something's gonna happen to you  you know  and she'd tell 'em about  what she dreamed about.
a couple days later- something's wrong, you know just the same thing that she described to 'em in the dream you know.
And uh  well  I don't go along with it.
I think it's a fallacy in it Hm?
Yeah just- just a  fraction  small fraction of the way.