Uh- In a group- a group game?
In the house sitting down, something like that?
Um, s-  sometime I play-  mm- Some-  sometime I like to play Scrabble.
Um,  you make words,  and you get points.
And it teach you a lot.
Teach you- Out of letters.
L-  It's something like Anagrams.
Ana- Anagrams is something just like Scrabble, too.
You make words.
With little blocks of wood with letters written- written on it.
Yeah, I used to play Hide and Seek, but I think I'm over age to play that now.
I say eleven, twelve.
I don't know.
We sang-  Oh, let me see.
We'd all sing,  um,  you put your feet in and we sing  um,  your mother and my mother were hanging up clothes.
My mother sock your mother in the nose.
Did it hurt?
Then if I say yes,  why you says the word yes so you are not it.
So they push they feet out, and the last person to be-  feet that bes in the circle, they'll be it.
So they go hide  they face and c- count to hundred then say, ready or not, here I come.
And the last one to the base is out without the person seeing.
Yeah, you drop the hank-  hankerchief or a piece of paper behind 'em,  and they have to chase after you.
If they get to they-  your place first,  you have to um, drop the paper behind another person, and they chase you.
Yeah.
I play um,  Freeze.
You tag a person  um- Like one person be polar bear,  and one person-  The polar bear tags the person that freeze them, and the other person come along and tag them and unfreeze 'em before the polar bear catch you still.
Um, yeah.
No.
I know one um- Let me see.
Eenie meenie miney moe.
Catch a-  eenie meenie miney mo.
Catch him by toe.
If he holler, let him go.
Eenie meenie miney moe.
Yes.
Um,  you have a mother, and you say,  Johnny,  take two steps.
Mother, may I?
Yes you may.
Johnny take two steps.
How many you say?
Two.
Stay back there Johnny!
You did not say, mother, may I!
Well,  we call that cheating.
Cause-  cause- because you're supposed to have manners.
You say- you-  may I?, thank you, and please.
And excuse me.
Gidget.
I missed it this Saturday.
The last time I saw it was um, she- I think it was a spelling test.
Something like that.
And  the teacher thought she was cheating, and her father thought she was cheating.
And her father's a v-  very important man, so the teacher- So she got her- most of her work  wrong and the teacher said um-  Hm, I forgot what they called her on there.
And so, on television.
Her real name.
So the teacher said- Well I'll say Gidget.
Say, Gidget  um,  since your father's a very important man,  you should know how to do your work.
And she went home and start crying and all.
No.
She didn't cheat.
They gave her a A.
Um,  I like  um- Let me see.
I like Mer-  M-  Mayberry REFD.
Yeah.
I like the time when um, two men came to town, and they stayed in a hotel.
And  a hotel.
And then um-  Let's see what happened.
Oh, no.
They didn't come and stay in a hotel.
They came to um-  Do you know the grandmother on um- I mean aunt on- Aunt Bee  came to the-  came to the farm to work for Aunt Pee.
Aunt Bee.
And so  she had five thousand dollars to build a swimming pool and playground for the children.
In the um,  town.
So,  um,  the men that came- She-  she put  the money in the  cookie jar  and so the men came and took the money out the cookie jar  and went to a card game with a man named Big Boose.
Something like that.
And started playing cards, and then the man- Big Boose grabbed the man up from the table and say, you are cheating.
And so the man say, I'm not cheating!
We're doing this for some church in the um-  raise the money.
So sure, Andy came in to say,  all y'all is arrest.
Then he say, wait a Sh- Wait Sheriff.
And then  he told the Sheriff all about that, and they had enough money to build a swimming pool and all.
And then  they went to church, and the two men  they were singing um,  Jesus keep me near the cross, and they- The two men was going all out the  tune.
And it was funny.
Yes.
The Invitation of Life.
Yes.
It was a little a Negro girl and a little white girl.
And so both of 'em like each other  very much, and they was raised up  together.
Then when they got big,  the colored girl wanted to make a-  She was rea- She was kind of light skinned.
She wanted to make like she was a white girl.
And her boyfriend beat her up and all.
And then at the end her mother died and Mahalia Jackson sing the hymn.
No, I don't like pets.
No.
No.
Cause they bite.
No, I was chasing after one- by one.
Yeah.
Yeah, I jumped on top a car.
Because I- We-  Me and my friends was rounding the corner, and  I'm teasing him.
Like whoo!
Whoo!
Then he starting coming after us, and they could run faster than me and left me.
Yeah!
It was a German Shepard.
No.
Oh, well-  You mean what's fav-  What's my favorite subject?
Well I take social studies, history, geography.
inaudble.
Canada.
Well- Latin, don't they speak Latin?
And- I forgot.
Canadians is there ain't it?
Canada.
That's what we were talking about.
The Canadians.
And we was talking about Quebec and um,  .
Okay.
Yeah.
It's-  one subject I do not like.
Reading.
Cause I don't put expression in my words.
No.
She have never told me.
I had got good marks in Reading and all my grades but I don't like Reading cause  I goof up too much.
Holler at me?
Like to kill?
Yeah.
I had such a-  hard time last year in the fifth grade, I didn't even know what to do.
She was just pretty  mean.
She was hateful.
Hateful.
That's why she got fired.
She'd come in  and she- One day she took us on the playground til nine thirty to eleven.
Let us stayed out there, and she went downtown shopping.
No kidding.
And we had some fun.
Yeah.
Came back at two fifteen.
No.
D- We- we stayed out there.
Then the bell ring- started ringing at um,  ten minutes to twelve, and  just went and got our stuff and drove us and went home.
No.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Everything.
She just make up anything to holler about.
Yes.
One day I wore my socks like the big kid, and she said my socks was mitch matched and start hollering at me.
No.
Cause she couldn't see cause I had on two red socks and two white sock.
Yeah, cause I had one red on f-  on top and one white down the bottom.
One white up top and one red down the bottom.
Yeah.
Mm.
Teacher I got    in the third grade, she was very nice.
And I really worked in her and my mom was real smart in her.
Then when I got to the fourth grade, I goofed, then in the sixth I'm doing better.
But I have to stop chewing and talking.
No.
I don't chew that much.
I like a teacher that um,  um-  She-  she won't- She'll explain your work and leave you on your own to do it, by yourself and finish it all.
Then that's how I can learn more.
Cause if uh- somebody keep on telling me, then when the big test come,  I won't know nothing, and then down I go.
Yes.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
She was hateful.
Yeah.
No, she had one pet.
And the rest of 'em she didn't give a heck about.
Mm, yes.
April Fool Day, they say, one day-  RD-NAME-3 was saying-  Think I was in the third.
They say, miss RD-NAME-2, your slip is hanging.
April Fool.
No.
Then when a boy went in the room- came in her room, she s- she told us, you know,  first of all, this year she like her children to be neat,  and keep your shirts in your pants and -  and all like that.
And then she say,  and the b- She told the boy, why is your shirt out your pants?
And he say,  April Fools something.
No.
I hang with one person.
Three or something like that.
One of my best friends.
One of 'em my best friends.
My friend named RD-NAME-4  And RD-NAME-2 and friend RD-NAME-4.
Yes, I had a fr- a friend of mine around  last year.
Her name was Ira.
She was Spanish.
And I had a uh, Mexican friend.
Her name was RD-NAME-2.
Her real name was RD-NAME-2.
One spoke Spanish and one spoke some Mexico or something .
Yes, I like-   I play with a friend, she sit about two desk- one desk from me.
Her name is RD-NAME-2.
And I have a Chinese friend.
Her name is RD-NAME-4 Um, last year I had  something like that.
Her name was RD-NAME-2.
Everything she says go,  but I didn't follow.
No, cause if she wants- sometimes like my mama told me,  you follow the leader, then the leader leaves you.
Then what you gonna do then?
So,  you gotta follow yourself and follow the light.
She went from big mad  bully.
Nothing.
Like,  about two or three of the children   probably lasted to 'em, say, you can't play with me.
But I tell 'em who they could play with me.
Cause all us is human beings.
No.
Um, I can't think of the name but you do research work.
You know, go through different states and  find out about the people,  and all, like that.
Mm.
Mm, no.
Um,  I think it take long.
About  three years.
Yeah.
Right now?
I'll go to Horn's shoe shop and buy me a pair of Hush Puppies.
Then go to  Shops and buy me a pair of  and a shell  and a winter coat.
And boots to match.
And give my mother some money.
I'd give my brothers and sisters.
I'd go buy the groceries for this week.
I'd give it all the rest of it to my grandmother.
What holidays?
Like Thanksgiving?
My ma- Oh.
Well for Thanksgiving my mother go buy about  Forty pound turkey and so many ounces.
We have five,  and my mother and my father.
Christmas Eve?
Um,  my mother put up our Christmas tree before Christmas Eve.
About two days before and we decorate it and-  and put the presents under.
Then on Christmas Eve, the present she had bought us,  she put it under there.
And then the next morning-  Now I guess the card that you have to put together for me-  For my little brother that's  five years old .
And then we- you eat ham or whatever it is for dinner, Then we might go somewhere like  to RD-ADDRESS-3 to see my aunt.
No.
I knows it.
No I'm stay woke sometimes  cause I think about all the year, all the things that I have done that's bad and good.
That's it, I ain't getting nothing.
So- So- Yeah.
Hm.
A steering bike.
It's a new kind of bike.
It's a mini by ??
big thing on the back and steering out the back.
It cost fifty nine ninety five.
I wanna show off on it.
Maroon.
You mean when I get way up there?
When I get a s-  in the seventh grade  or when January the first come,  when I make my revolutions,  I'm going to say  that I'm going to try harder,  and just like one of my teachers told me in school,  go up the ladder instead of come down the ladder.
Start on the first step and go to the last.
I don't pay no attention to 'em cause I don't think nobody knows in this world what's going to happen but God.
So, sometimes I say  it might gonna happen,  so I just have to wait til that time come and see.
Cause  can't go by everybody's word.
The one that said  um,  um, the first one.
It was his time.
Cause when you die,  it's your- it's really your time to go.
Cause the other ones is normal.