Tag  and kickball,  football,  and  freeze tag  and  uh,  and uh,  uh, bas-  s-  sometime basketball.
One-  one person be it,  and when they- when they tags her,  you it.
You frozened,  and then the other person got to  unfroze you  if you frozen again.
And uh, then the-  you got to k-  other person got to keep 'em frozen.
First you-  When you're ready to start,  the-  you got to throw off to the other team that-  and that other team got to catch the ball  and run and try to make a touchdown.
Mm-hm.
Think-  Yeah.
Mm-mm.
No.
Sometime I play boxer.
I-  You got to try and knock a person down.
Mm-mm.
M-  Te-  Tell 'em to put their feet in.
And then w-  then we  say some words,  and whoever be the last one,  they it.
Mm-hm.
Tarzan was in the tree.
Tarzan was in the tree.
He fell down.
What color was his blood?
And-  and then  the  person say  red  or  some other color.
Then they spell it.
And it w-  if you get to them,  they're out.
They're n-  They're not it.
Mm-hm.
Jerry Lewis,  Dean Martin,  uh,  Rowan and Martin Laugh In.
They always say sock it to me.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I can't think of none.
Mm-hm.
Salt and Pepper.
I don't know.
It was Sammy Davis Junior and  Robert Mitchell playing in it.
I don't know.
Can't think of-  too funny.
Oh, the man-  th-  the man had a c-  bomb s- in it.
S- ch- aks Salt and Pepper,  they wanna go for a ride and the car explode.
Uh,  seen  Dean Martin playing in  Five Card Stud.
It w-  This uh,  man  who pretend he is a preacher  and  everyt-  whoever plays a card,  he kill-  he kill  every one of 'em  that- who's  at the table playing card.
Mm-mm.
No.
My mama don't- My mama don't want me to have none.
Might  mess up-  mess up the house.
History,  and  I real-  History,  and-  and  uh,  Geophasy,  Science.
Mm-hm.
Sometimes stay out  on the playground and play.
Some of 'em go home.
No.
S-  Never hollered at me.
When they make her mad.
Run around in the room playing.
Miss-  Miss RD-NAME-1.
Sh-  She never  w-  She never hit me  or hollered at me  or send me out the room.
Mm-mm.
No.
Nope.
Only one.
The one w-  who had the big stick, always whooping us.
Some- She whooped the whole c-  Some- When one person do something, she'd whoop the whole class for nothing.
Sometime.
When the teacher go out the room, they sneak out with-  these e- c-  g-  um, look-  loo-  come back in the room,  and they  always sneaking out the back door.
No.
My friends.
RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2,  and  RD-NAME-2-  RD-NAME-4.
That's all I can think of.
Play-  We play.
Play games and bas-  Play  k-  I mean,  baseball.
We were going  in the-  in the yard and play.
I  be the catcher.
Mm-hm.
Not that good.
Negro.
Mm-mm.
Aks 'em.
Mm-hm.
I went to-  I went to house-  door to-  house to house.
A pig.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
My brother did.
This lady gave him some candy.
He said, hey miss, you ain't give me none.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I don't know.
We just  g-  just go out  and say, Merry Christmas.
A movie projector.
I- I knew I was getting it.
Mm-hm.
It's a wind up-  It's the wind-  movie jector which you wind.
Uh,  I want another one.
But this big one that talk.
Go to church.
Go Easter hunting.
Down-  down by the monument and the Capitol.
Mm-hm.
Found a  egg.
Mm-mm.
Um, I wanna be a doctor.
S- I don't know.
I-  Give people operation.
Operate on people.
About twenty years.
I don't know.
Can't think of.
Uh-huh.
Went to summer school.
Same thing we study in school.
Not all of it.
M-  One day the  Little Red Riding Hood aksed her mother c-  could she go over her grandmother house,  and her mother said, yeah,  watch out for the big bad wolf.
And she-  she's carrying her mother some goodies,  and when she was going down the road,  she took a short cut  to the gr-  to her grandmother house.
And the wolf  saw,  and s-  f-  took another short cut  and  went in the-  to the house and  put  um,  her grandmother in the closet  and put on her  u-  her  g- night gown,  got into bed.
And Little Red Riding Hood knocked at the door.
She ca-  He aksed her come in,  and she went in,  and-  and she said,  Grandma,  what big  eyes you have.
To better to see you.
Grandma,  what big nose you have.
To-  to better to  smell.
Grandma,  what big  teeth you have.
To better to eat you!
And started chasing Little Red Riding Hood around the house,  and-  w-  and the man who cut down trees,  he came in  with a ax and chopped the wolf head off.
Mm-hm.
Ha- One-  Hansel and Gretel went into the woods,  and they got lost so  he had some bread in his pocket and  chopped them-  broke 'em up into little pieces and  put 'em on the ground so he could find his  way back  where those  breadcrumb  was.
And  when he saw this house made of candy,  they start eating off of it.
And a witch came out  and aksed,  come in.
Tell 'em to come in,  and then when she- they went inside,  so the l- witch put a  cage over  Hansel.
And-  and-  and Gret- and-  and told Gretel  to make a fire  and  told her to get inside the oven and see if it was hot enough.
And  she said she didn't know how to do it,  so the witch got in,  she shut the door  on and the witch  burned down in the house l-  turned back to the wood,  and fell down,  and they found the gold.
Mm-mm.
D-  o-  Three bear-  The mother bear made some porridge,  and-  and it was too hot,  so  th-  Father Bear said, Let's go for a walk  and let our  porridge cool off.
So they went for a walk,  and Goldilock came in,  knocked on the door,  and nobody was there.
So she went in,  she ate  all the porridge up.
Then she sit down,  and then she went upstairs and went to bed.
And the three bears came back  and they said,  my porridge gone!
Mine is too.
And then,  Somebody ate all mines up, and the little baby bear started crying.
And then the mother bear says,  Someone's been sitting in my chair.
And the father bear said-  And th-  Baby Bear,  and uh, his chair was all broken up  so he start crying again.
When they went upstair,  th-  Mother Bear says, somebody's  been sitting in my bed.
And the father bear said it too.
And they look,  and the  baby bear saw  Goldilock, and Goldilock started running.
And the three bear was chasing her, so she ran out the door  and went down the road.