About ten?
I would say  leap frog  uh mumblety-peg  baseball,  football, uh, Pardon?
With an ice pick.
You uh,  put it on your hand and you  do like that  stick it in the ground.
another way you stand up and  it has various phases.
The m- ma- the  main point of the game is to put the point of the ice pick in the dirt.
Well uh, the final as I remember the final uh phase of it was to stick the-  stand up  and throw the  point  of the-  by twirling  the ice pick  three times  into the ground  Had to hit three times in a row  standing up.
No you were  right yea- just like we're sitting here, the ground was right in front of us so you just stood up and  threw it  down, more or less.
Straight down.
Uh you missed.
Yes.
Uh, Mumblety-peg I- Leap frog.
Leap frog.
Well one person  bends over in front of you and you uh,  approach him from the rear  and put your hands on his back and  jump over his body.
Then this continues, then he does and however many play and then he just-  keep going.
Usually uh, take a bat  and uh  two people  you know  they  swing the bat to- grab it  and somebody swings the bat and whoever  lets go  he has first choice.
So then  he choose first then whoever was the other per- person  choose second and alternate  like that.
Well whoever  won the  first choice.
Auto-  automat- Yes and As many boys as we had.
Sometimes we didn't have eighteen boys we'd have  ten or  five or six or- whatever amount of boys we had we just play with w- whatever we had.
Any certain positions we left out if we didn't have enough- nine players?
Well we'd always have a pitcher, a catcher,  a first baseman,  second baseman,  a third ba- well,  at least five men  we'd have  you know like that.
Then we'd just uh  w- well the  infielders go in the outfield or something like that.
But we leave the outfield  more or less spacey.
Who could hit the ball that far you know  Softball mostly.
At ten or eleven like that.
Well we lived in the Northeast section of Washington  and we had plenty of fields out there.
Oh yes, plenty of fields.
Oh yes,  tackle,  touch,  depends on the  you know the ground  and the  playmates, some wanna play tackle or some wanna play touch so.
You have most wanna play touch, you play touch, you wanna-  most wanna tackle,  tackle.
Oh tag?
Yeah.
Oh sure.
Follow the leader,  things like that.
Well,  tag we just um  How did we play it?
It's been a long time  Let me see as I  remember it, we just uh  somebody was it  and then uh you had to  catch somebody, tag them to make them it, and whoever was tagged last that was it until they could tag someone else.
A matter of running and tagging.
Now this I don't remember.
I really don't remember.
No,  I can't think of any off hand.
I, personally yes.
Baseball, actually  Now I do.
Yeah well in Washington on television mostly you see is Washington, that's about- yeah.
I think he's Well I think as he says he's a streak hitter and think this will uh, you know cool down, I don't think he'll continue it.
I think he'll have a pretty good average  at the end of the season.
Yes.
Sixty one or better.
Oh you mean the  season?
No I think it's very good.
Yes  plus he's a strong boy.
All around player on the Senators?
Well I have to agree with the uh vote that they took in Washington uh during the Winter, be Paul Casanova the best all around athlete.
But so far this year he hasn't uh you know  added up to his potential.
That's for sure.
Oh he's as good defensively this year as he has been  uh y- oh, you know for the last year.
But he just hasn't  start hitting yet  that's all.
The steadiest?
Pascual.
I think so.
I think he's uh-  above the rest and then Joe Coleman I give him a chance, he's  very good.
Uh Coleman?
Second full season.
Yes.
I think they're  much better than a cellar team.
Ah we have a pretty good race there.
I don't know.
I have an idea who's gonna win it  I mean I think it's between Minnesota,  Detroit and Baltimore.
Two of those.
No.
Not Cleveland.
No.
Care for one?
Well I like uh  some variety shows, Dean Martin I  like his show very much.
Well actually I don't sit down and look at TV that often.
You said do I watch TV, yes  but uh  uh habitually just sit there in front of the box no I don't.
I watched-  I have watched Mannix  but not  to any great degree.
And uh  Big Valley  I've seen that quite a few times.
And Pardon?
Hm well,  only vaguely.
I remember one where it was uh this  uh adopted son of theirs  was at a great quandary about who was his father, what his father was or something like that  and it seemed that some woman in some  distant town from where they live  had some information pertaining to this  and uh  it was a big to-do about it but finally it worked out  pretty well.
And I'll say it's not- very vague- it's not very clear  but I remember that particular episo-  episode.
Well I thought it was interesting yes.
One finding his heritage you know and who it is and what and why and so forth and so.
Well  not very often.
The last one I saw was Valley of the Dolls.
Well the dolls themselves were  dope  tablets you know  pills like that and uh it was these girls were  at various times  wrapped up in them  and they  affected- the dolls, the pills  affected their lives  very much,  very much.
What happened to them?
One finally committed suicide, one  I think  was going  off her rocker at the end of the picture,  and the other one  straightened up and  presumably  lived happily ever after.
Well one was a-  the one that is-  uh wound up  uh  going insane  she was a famous movie actress.
So uh most of it was  through-  about her life and  what she went through to start,  what she went through,  why she was,  and her final collapse.
Another one was um  she was sort of in the  show business  but more or less was a model,  she had a mother that always made her breasts- had to be s- you know a certain way and everything else,  and she wound up doing uh nudey pictures in France for some guy,  and she married some  fella who was a  promising singer  and he had some disease  so we- he was institutionalized  and she went overseas and start making these pictures.
And uh finally she came back and  things didn't go too well for her and she's the one that finally committed suicide.
The other girl, she started out from a  little town in Connecticut,  went to New York,  and got this um  a job with a  legal firm.
And she got involved emotionally with um  one of the  partners of the legal firm,  and they had a  set-to here and a set-to there and he had a set-to with the movie star and  she finally-  well she found out about the movie star and-  and her  friend, her fella,  and she uh  started taking the  pills too.
But she finally straightened up packed up and went back to Connecticut and she  presu- she's the one pro- uh presumably hap- lived happily ever after.
Uh well,  saw quite a few I remember very well.
It was Gone With the Wind was a very good one,  Shane was a very good one.
It- well it was on TV not too long ago.
Um.
Well I don't remember too well either it's a  Western  picture.
He was a  you know  cowboy.
All in that  order.
and it all takes place in Western towns and  fast with the gun, and  hard  fighter and  nice guy all the way around you know he was a  good guy, lot of the  people were bad guys in the West those days  like most Westerns I mean, not a real thick plot.
I, a pet?
As a boy we had dogs, yes.
What did we do with them?
Nothing but play with them.
No my father took care of them  f- mo- f- f- mother or father.
And I just played with 'em  Ran and  swimming hole with 'em and you know baseball and like that.
Well, yes dogs go in the water sure.
Oh yes.
Dogs go in the water.
You get to laughing and playing, went  old swimming hole out in Maryland, not far from the District line and they- we'd go out there and jump in the hole and  they'd  splash in the water, you know shake it all over you, you think you dried off and they  make sure you wet again.
Well one was a bull and the other one was uh just a  mongrel, you know just another dog just a dog that's all.
The most amusing thing was the bulldog you know he's kind of big and mean,  and the other little mongrel he was a  I don't know what he was just a  mongrel and he was a little thing  he used to go out and pick all the fights in the neighborhood with the big dogs and the big dog had to come along and rescue him  It was- So help me.
Go and fight everything in the neighborhood and the big dog have to come along and-  and  take him home.
Yeah both at the same time.
Jack was the bulldog, Raymond was the  little dog.
Reading,  arithmetic um,  well spelling,  uh  elementary school.
I really don't know much further than that.
Yeah.
Writing of course.
Penmanship.
High school I had  English,  biology,  Latin,  Uh  math,  sociology,  mm history,  phys-ed, uh,  high school.
That's about it.
We had some chemistry,  you know as you  go from grade to grade you change from biology to chemistry like that.
Huh  not much  just uh go home,  change your clothes, get something to eat,  go out and play.
Well anything you know  skip rope um,  well,  uh baseball um,  tag, anything you know.
Mumblety-peg?
Huh?
Play the kids games, yeah.
Cause we used to have uh girls with us we used to play dodgeball and  as well as skip rope  we used to-  anything you know just the girls do we did they- if we played ball, they played ball, so.
Well you see the girls play more hopscotch or something like that and the boys play more mumblety-peg, but as far as uh skipping the rope and  dodgeball and  tag and  baseball  like that,  well boys played more football than the girls, but the girls played baseball.
Uh  junior high you mean,  or high school?
Yeah well high school well  uh the first year  after school I drilled, Yeah,  cadet corps.
Yeah.
And uh when I got home it was uh time to  get the uniform off and hit the books you know uh may have some chores to do you know something to do around the house  and  that was it,  study, you know that's-  that was it.
Not too much uh  play in the afternoons  a- you know with drilling, You don't get home from drill til around oh five, something like that.
Well Washington, DC has this uh  high school cadet corps.
Yeah and they um  drilled same as um,  it's sort of an ROTC.
You see in college ROTC, it's something like that.
you have uniforms, you have uh your captains, your lieutenants, your regular officers and everything, your flag  sergeants and you take basic military training.
You know your  formations, your marching, your  just  regular  basic  military training.
Yeah we started in tenth grade.
This was strictly up to the uh outfit,  I mean if you were advanced enough in your learning  to try the tricky stuff you could try the tricky stuff but it wasn't compulsory.
With the rifle yeah yeah with the rifle yeah.
Uh No if I say so myself I was a pretty good student.
I didn't uh need a lot of hollering so- so I got along with my teachers pretty well.
Oh we used to have a geography teacher that uh  used to get very disgusted with  some members of the class and  she'd  raise her voice  yes.
Misbehavior or  failure to get your lessons or bring in proper homework or  things of that nature.
something the child had done,  not the teacher.
Well nine times out of ten I wasn't involved in it so I mean  I couldn't say I mean but I uh do know that she treated me fair so I can imagine that she was treating them fairly as she could before she hollered like that.
No one of her favorite statements used to be I got mine you have yours to get and you can sit there and play around all you want, you know, you don't have t- to get to work if you don't want to, I have mine  and you have yours to get.
which I thought was fair.
I mean, she worked hard to get where she was and I didn't think that the kids should be in there just  you know raising Cain and  disrupting everybody else.
So in my estimation she was fair.
The best teacher?
You mean the most efficient or the one I like the most?
I had a Latin teacher in high school  that I  liked  very much.
You know  she was a very good teacher and  so what and so on  Ah the most efficient teacher, pardon?
Well she uh  explained  and she  was always available  you know if you had difficulty or  you know- she was always available,  and she did it with a smile  with  a thought of uh  you know grumbling  and she just seemed to be a dedicated teacher,  and she helped her students  all get grades that were  the maximum instead of just passing like that.
She helped them as much as she possibly could.
Mm, pretty good.
Well,  now the one that's- was the most efficient I think was uh  a little rough  actually I mean  uh he was a male teacher and he was a  science teacher  in fact  and he just nearly-  he d-  was more or less the same as this other teacher but he was just  less uh  cooperative, less uh helpful  and so what so on  but he did give it to you to the point  of  you should have it,  if you just pay attention so what and so on  he was more he-  taught more like a college teacher than a high school teacher like that, and I think he was very efficient.
Well I think if you didn't you just plain had to  form a dislike for him and you know just one of those mental blocks or something like that.
I think most of 'em thought  of him as a good teacher.
They didn't think that he was rough because I didn't have a great  love for science, for biology that's why he was strict and he was just uh  I mean he just  made it worse that's all  No I think all of 'em thought he was a good teacher though.
Mm  uh,  no, I had one who didn't like me so much but I could get along with uh  just about all of 'em.
Well in my uh fifth year Latin, I was the only boy in a class with twenty one,  And I think he uh resented this  I really think he resented it, you know.
So does- A man teacher yeah.
And I think he liked to play with the girls you know  you know whatever you wanna do with 'em, a male uh might  interfere with his uh- uh his teaching or something.
Well he didn't have any great love for me but I got along with him pretty well you know Mm not that I recall.
Never.
No no no.
They'd play with each other you know but not with the teacher.
Pulling chairs out from behind one another and all this, yeah.
But that's with each other  not with a teacher.
Right.
Oh they would do anything  uh  you know kids in  elementary you know stick balls and  uh rubber bands  do almost anything But as I got older  took that out of the classroom you know  took that recess or  ten thirty break or whatever it was  as you got o- they got older they didn't  play around, horse around too much in the classroom.
I would say so,  yeah.
Yeah.
Never.
Everybody was  kwina kind of equal  right.
It made us no difference.
Fact I moved quite a few times when I was young so therefore I was always the new kid in the block   so it just- so you know just  come on in and play  that's all.
Course you always  you know look at the new guy,  you know who is he, what is he like and all that but  no  trouble or anything.
No you just fought   you know you just get on the playground you might get in a fight  or d-  play  tag somebody- hits somebody too hard, you might get in a fight but  just to fight a new kid, no  no  nothing like that.
No.
At ten years of age?
No.
In junior high school we lived with a-  well they had a  neighborhood store and the son there  was a Jew, Caucasian, so I say  he and I, we used to-  the whole neighborhood used to play together.
Caucasians?
No usually I'm with the family.
I'm a family man and uh usually I'm either wi- either with  my immediate family or  the brothers and sister of the wife or the brother and sist- my own  people like that  very seldom I go  out  period, you know to mix with people  to a party or  cabaret or something like that, well then you have everybody there but other than that just to no.
Mostly it's family.
Course I have a large family.
I mean my  wife is right, right, relatives right.
I have four children in school.
I'd stay in school  stay in university, in college  that's for sure.
Yeah.
Well I made a mistake when I went in, I went in uh  into the second half  of the course.
I started in February instead of uh September.
And as a uh counselor said I should be able to uh do the work, so what and so on, it didn't come quite that easily.
Plus I had been married and uh had  other things on my mind, I'd had a break up in the marriage so I wasn't actually  applying myself  as I could.
So instead of frustrating myself I just dropped out.
But if I had to  do it all over, plus I was twenty five years old when I started.
So if I had it to do all over again, I'd start  when I came out of high school, I came out of high school when I was sixteen  almost seventeen, I'd start shortly after then,  and then I think I could've breezed through  you know with more understanding and more anxiety and everything else.
So if I had to do it all over again I'd  definitely  do that.
Business.
I was taking uh business administration.
A teacher.
When I was in kindergarten I wanted to be a teacher.
I thought it was fascinating.
Yeah.
All the money?
Well this is a pretty good time to ask me that with all those people down on the uh  monument uh  reflecting pool  I'd donate quite a bit of it to them to the  that's for sure,  and I would  uh  provide  very  well for my family,  house uh  and all the other  necessities and some luxuries for them.
And then I'm sure I would uh  save quite a bit  as well as donating to  worthy  causes.
I would definitely try to make my family very happy  and comfortable.
And  donate to others  and  save.
Pardon?
Yes.
Well, I lost my mother when I was nine and my father wasn't very much around and so, people do it for me all my life so it's a natural  thing with me.
I like people and they've always treated me very nicely.
Well,  the first thing you do you know you get in your car and make sure it's pretty clean  you start your manifest that's your record your  trips for the day  and you  start your motor and you drive.
That's it.
Well,  no.
I  live  in the second alphabet  up on the hill  Georgia Avenue  by Howard University,  and I go over to Fourteenth Street which is a good  hacking street  in the morning, this is when I leave directly from home and I just cruise down Fourteenth street  til I  pick up the first fare.
If I don't  pick up a fare before I get to a hotel  yeah  I'll go to a hotel or a business office or  something like that, where people usually are  moving around  and they use cabs  quite uh  a bit.
I don't head for the  industrial centers that don't start until you know  later  or something like that, you know the sh- shopping area like that.
And right now I take my wife to work in the morning,  and I take my daughter to school  after I let the wife out.
So I start  almost up  near Maryland District line so I just come down Georgia Avenue and you just pick up  any- as I said anybody that  hails a cab.
You have no idea where you're going or how long you  take you to get there like this you just start like that.
And once you start rolling you just cruise like that.
Well that's like any business you have good days, you have bad days slow days, fast days.
Weather doesn't make it particularly  good.
It can make it bad as well as good.
Like a snowy day, you have plenty of business.,  rainy day you have plenty of business  but you can't move so uh you have people crying for a cab but you get the p- passenger, could take you half hour forty five minutes to make uh  one trip.
So you- it's plenty of business  there  but you cannot  handle it.
Right.
So good weather is better  for- for hacking all the way around yes.
You know you take like we have uh group riding in Washington, now if I can ride  say from the Dupont Plaza where you saw me, to the Mayflower  with five people,  I pick up five people there and go to the Statler,  and five people there to the Dupont Plaza  a ride like this,  well I'll make a bundle.
But you get this once every ten years.
So therefore usually you get one going to the end of the city for a dollar and fifty cents  and by the time you get back you wasted an hour for a dollar and fifty cents.
So in this th- th- weather does not make  business that  uh  that much  better.
Well the children they uh mostly  wrapping their own presents for  whomever they're giving them and  the wife and I we're just  making last uh  minute preparations like uh maybe shopping or  the tree or  something like that,  and the children go to bed  and we stay up and put up the tree and  decorate it  and  put the presents under and  try to get to bed.
If there's uh  any time left, we'll get to bed.
But mostly just uh fixing up the  tree and  presents that's mostly- and the house.
Christmas?
Well,  you just get a big uh  charge out of seeing the smiley ha- smiling happy faces when they come downstairs, ooh eeh you know all like this  and unwrap the presents and  you know laughing, talking,  so forth and so on,  that's about the  next day-  next morning,  and as the day goes on you know you might have  well naturally you have uh  conversations you might look at television, might sing a carol, you might  do anything til dinner's ready,  and you eat dinner,  and then  that's about the day.
Like that.
Well   all the relatives  have their own families,  so on Christmas Day itself  we not- may not see  many  uh people but  during the holidays  we always see just about all of them.
One will visit this hou-  maybe everybody visit one house one night and then the next house  so everybody sees everybody during the holidays,  but on Christmas Day itself, no it's mostly family right.
Or maybe a friend might drop in, it's mostly friends will drop in on Christmas Day rather than family.
Cause as I say everybody has a family with their own children and  responsibilities and you know work and all this and  they spend most of their time home.
True.
Yeah when I was about uh  fifteen years old,  my sister was taking care of me  my older sister  and naturally being sort of a  outsider you know and she had four children of her own,  I expected something you always get a token you know for Christmas so what and so on but uh she gave me a watch, wristwatch.
And I was quite surprised and glad and everything else.
I think that's the  most surprising if not the best Christmas present I ever got.
I was in World War II in France where a sniper was shooting at us every uh  other minute.
I didn't think about dying I just realized I could be hurt  but uh,  no I've never been in a situation where I actually thought I was gonna die.
No.
I mean I knew I was in situations where  I could be killed,  but I never thought about  dying,  that I'd be  killed, no.
I'm pretty much of a fatalist in that way.
I mean I'm not gonna go out here and try to be reckless to the point of trying fate,  but I do believe that uh  very much what is gonna happen to you is going to  happen.
You mean as far as day to day living is concerned?
Well,  only thing that I do dangerous is drive and I'm not gonna stop driving  So no I  wouldn't do anything to change the future, no.