When I was young,  um,  I played  games such as  um,  Hot Bread and Butter,  um,  Cowboys and Indians, and  played tag  and  little baseball.
Well we put our feet  in  center of a circle  and we'd say a little rhythm like,  Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out,  and the last one to get out,  well he'd be the one 'it'  until they tag someone.
Yeah, something like this.
Or either  um-  Well I can't think of no more.
Yeah, I played a little baseball,  basketball.
Tried to play a little football.
Yes.
Mostly we'll have guys from-  around the neighborhood  or  school that-  after  lunch hour in school time, we would play  little football, hoop or tackle.
And if we hoop the ball u- You know, throw it up in the air, then we-  everyone gang tackle the one who get the ball.
Yes.
Played  a lot of marbles.
I used to have a collection of marbles.
And um,  I used to go out,  play marbles  and win 'em and save 'em.
And you know I  think I had about a thousand or something marbles  at one time.
You know, I'd lose some and win some.
Yes.
We had  marbles that um, looked something like cat eyes.
They used to call 'em cat eyes,  and we had  big marbles  they call bunkers.
When I was young, I watched a lot of television.
Um,  I used to watch  that program that um,  Hopalong Cassidy.
I used to watch a lot of cartoons in the morning.
You know, catch the cartoons in the morning.
I don't watch too much television now.
I Spy  and, It-  It Takes a Thief.
Not right off hand.
I seen it-  I seen it uh-  No I didn't look at it last week.
Yeah.
Um,  Good, Bad and Ugly  with Clint Eastwood.
Well this was a cow-  um,  sort of a Mexican picture where- where the star was a  bounty hunter.
And he,  you know,  he was hunting  you know,  different men, and he had this Mexican fella  who was his friend.
He was  the Ugly.
And  they got their heads together,  and they  finally end up killing the Good.
No, but I seen the To Sir, With Love.
That was about this um, colored school teacher  who had a class  uh-  He had a,  you know-  These pupils of him,  most of 'em was white,  and  well  he put up with a lot of stuff  you know, from pupils.
And um,  he had a,  you know, good sense of humor  most of the time.
And uh, the pupils, they um,  kept on  pressing him.
You know?
Like  pressing his temper,  and he put up with 'em,  and at the end,  well,  they showed how much they really like him.
While- When he was um-  When they had- were graduating,  they gave him this present.
And uh,  it was a, you know,  deep concern for uh,  him and this girl  in this picture.
The best movie I ever saw?
I guess it was Cool Hand Luke.
Uh, this was about this um- this man who  got picked up for cutting the heads off of parking meters,  and uh,  he went to um,  penitentiary.
And uh,  he had a lot of guts, and they-  you know,  so  one day he start-  He um-  him and this  big fella got in a fight.
This fella, uh, he could beat everybody in the penitentiary.
So the big fella was beating him, kept on knocking him down, but he kept on getting up.
That showed that he had a lot of guts, you know?
And so um,  big fella  became fond of him you know, and started calling him Cool Hand Luke.
Because in- in the dormitory, they used to make bets.
They were betting on Luke,  and Luke was a gambler.
You know, he could play cards real good.
And so one day, Luke said that um,  he could fifty eggs.
And so,  they made bets that Luke couldn't eat fifty eggs, fifty boiled eggs.
But Luke, he ate fifty boiled eggs, and he,  Luke,  he kept on breaking out of prison, and they kept on catching him.
And at the end, he got shot  because they told Luke that if he break out again, they was gonna shoot him.
And so he broke out again,  and he went to this church,  and so the-  him and this big fella, they broke out together.
And so  th-  they caught the big fella and he brought him back,  showed 'em where Luke was.
Luke was in the church.
And so they told Luke to come out,  and Luke wouldn't come out so they shot him.
They- they didn't show whether he died or not.
They just showed 'em taking him to the .
I mean taking him to the hospital.
Yeah.
That was just about the best I've seen.
I seen a lot of good movies, but you know,  that was  a good time.
Yeah, I seen that too.
Well it's-  Bonnie and Clyde  was about  this um,  young man  and this young woman,  who um,  got in together with each-  each other,  and  they um,  rob- used to rob banks  and stuff like this.
And uh,  they steal cars  and so um,  they stole um,  this man's car.
And they w-  went- started robbing banks, and um,  all during the picture um,  well his- his brother came and-  his brother and his wife came and joined him.
And police was always hot on 'em but  Bonnie- I mean,  Clyde,  he didn't  wanna really kill nobody  unless he was force- See he wasn't no killer like Machine Gun Gelly-  Kelly.
He'll just kill you for nothing.
But he just kill when he had to kill.
And um,  at the end,  when they got shot up pretty bad,  police,  they just  open up on 'em.
You know, five  machine guns, just shot 'em all up.
Yeah, I think it w-  best  Academy Award, something like.
Paul Newman.
No, we had a parakeet one time I used to like.
He died though.
He got old.
Nah.
Well,  I mean, school- Well,  I take up a trade.
I take Barbering over RD-SCHOOL-6.
And uh,  take um,  Government,  English, Math,  and uh,  Chemistry.
Yeah.
No, I don't-  I don't do processing.
I cut  men's, women's-  and women's hair.
And- Uh-  I don't know.
They don't teach it over here.
No.
Mm-hm.
Well,  I usually go down on the basketball court and shoot some basketball  most of the time after school.
I usually play baseball.
No.
Jump shot.
Sh-  Best shot.
Yeah, we um-  In the fifth grade, well I had a teacher name Miss RD-NAME-2.
And  she used to get on me a lot,  but um,  in the end I found out what she was saying was true, you know.
See she was kind of old,  and um, she used to  be kind of old timey.
But  what she was saying was true because I  found out later on  that it paid off what she was saying.
Yeah, she yelled at me  quite a few time.
And- Like I be playing,  talking,  either, you know,  throwing stuff  around the room.
Something like that.
She was fair most of the time.
In the third grade, well I had a teacher name Miss RD-NAME-3.
I think she was the best teacher because she used to give us  parties all the time.
Every time something-  a special occasion  jump up, she'd  take money out her own pocket  and  buy us  some-  you know, something to drink and play records and we having a good time, you know.
No, I don't think I had a teacher that I never could stand, but  friends of mine,  you know, teacher that go to his school-  a friends of m-  friends of mine, they talk about this teacher.
And you know, I see him in the hall,  and  he probably get on me for something once in a while.
I don't think I can stand him, but I never had him before.
Huh?
Well he try to be hard.
You know, he a math teacher named Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
He try to be hard on you.
You know?
Because I know a fella in- in um- in my shop,  well,  he  one of the smartest boys, you know, in uh- in um-  that used to take classes with me.
And  he is failing in math, you know, so I know he must be kind of hard on 'em.
Yeah.
They have um,  Auto Transmission,  um, Tailoring,  Brick Laying,  um,  Carpentry,  Auto Body,  um,  Machine Shop-  Let's see.
Y- Yeah.
I  hang out with a group of fellas  after school,  but not during school, you know.
Oh, we just walk around.
Hang up on the corner  most of the time.
Yeah, it's a policeman.
That what- That what we call the policemen.
We call 'em walk man,  fuzz,  stick man,  like that, you know.
No,  but  I used to go with a girl  that was from Panama, you know.
She used to s-  speak Spanish a lot.
No, mostly colored.
Yes,  um,  you could say  he's more-  Now-  Well,  he-  When I used to be with him, he used to be more of a leader, but now  you know, since I  grown up some, you know, I don't see too much of leadership in him because  I figure that everyone  have a man of his own  and  do what he wanna do.
Cause can't nobody make nobody do what they don't wanna do.
And this  fella name is RD-NAME-1.
Y-  RD-NAME-5, and we call him RD-NAME-2.
And I think  because what shows so much leadership in him because  he's a short fella and he  kind of  strong, you know, stocky built, you know?
And he'd been known you know, to  whoop boys bigger than him.
Mm-hm.
I think so out there,  the guy that's the toughest  or  either could think the best.
I guess if he just come and-  and hang with the boys that be with us.
If he you know, hang with some other fellas, well,  I guess he won't be with the group.
I guess the way he can fight.
You know, how go- how well he can fight.
You know, take care of hisself.
Yeah, if he dress nice.
Well I'm  take the Barber's Board  probably, in um,  June.
I mean in April.
No, not in April.
In uh,  July.
And um,  I wanna, you know, take the um,  Post Office exams so I can  go in the Post Office.
I probably be a mail carrier.
What would I do with it?
I don't know.
I couldn't say  until that um,  um,  situation arise.
I couldn't say.
Yeah.
I'll be graduating this year, and uh,  I hope to be working this summer.
Well I don't-  I'd rather-  You know, if I have a f-  a job or something,  well I'd rather um,  buy my little sisters and them  or brothers and them something,  and you know, I rather go without nothing, you know.
I'd rather see them enjoy they Christmas.
And it's,  you know, instead of me, see?
You know, I enjoy my Christmas because I don't really need nothing, you know?
But I rather just see them  have stuff.
Bicycle.
I mean, I was  much surprised, you know, because I hadn't  thought that I was getting one at Christmas cause I had been asking my mother for a bicycle  for quite some time.
And so, when I came downstairs, it was under the tree.
When I was younger, I used to g-  um, Halloween,  we use-  I used to go with a group of guys, and we used to um, go around people house,  Trick or Treat, knocking on doors, asking 'em for  Trick or Treat.
And uh,  as I got a little bit  older,  I used to go around snatching bags.
You know, snatching people bags so I could get my bag filled up real quick.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well one night  I stayed out all night,  you know?
And I was scared to come back home,  you know, that night.
I mean the next morning,  I was scared to come back home.
And you know, I thought I was gonna get it,  a whooping, you know, from my father.
So I went home the next day, but he didn't whoop me.
He just talked to me you know.
Not that I can remember.
I mean, what's the question?
Well that's the way I feel too.
Because what's gonna happen gonna happen.
That's the- what do they say?
Gonna happen, it's gonna happen.