Well I played basketball  and f- and uh, baseball when I was a child.
Well you have a-  a basket on the post and  when you throw the ball into the bastet, you call a goal.
How- how did I score?
Uh t-  twenty one was a game.
Well, every time you throw the ball  into the basket That- th- that's one point.
Uh-huh.
Well, we played Going Around the Merryberry Bush.
Well, you g-  About twelve kids hold hands and put two in the ring and they call that going around the Merryberry Bush.
Well, it was our aim- Uh, at the end of it,  a boy and a girl was always in the ring, and the boy would get a kiss from a girl you see?
Uh, well I myself- When I- We was in school at that time, it was around  eight and nine and ten.
No, uh, we didn't.
No.
Oh yes, when I was in school, we had a lot baseball games.
E- Yes.
I always payed first base.
Oh, y- yes.
And- and during the summers, you know, the community would have a team, and we would travel  to various counties and various little villages and play  when school was out.
Well,  sometime it was good, and sometime it was kind of bad.
Makes me think of the Washington Senators.
You know, they win sometime, then again they down.
No!
But when they first started, I w- a little dull after three games you know.
You are?
Well since I've been here,  I go along with the Senators since the Senators here.
Well, in- in games,  they just have the good years and bad years.
That's the only way I can see it.
You know, there are other years the White Sox have been good.
I- I kind of think so.
Mm-hm.
But owing to their background, they should bring it out.
That's a sixty four dollar question.
Well I hope it- e- end up in first place.
Because I've been in Washington twenty two years.
I never seen a pennant won here, and I hope we get in first place.
Yeah.
Well, when it gets-  The weather get hot,  it always a change there.
You know, last year, they was doing good.
Soon as the weather got hot, they went down for awhile.
Oh yes, they did excellent.
Yes, they did.
It surprise everyone I think.
I can't call his name right now, but I know him so well.
But I can't call his name.
Uh- uh- first base.
Uh, just before the old Senators went to Minnesota.
Was that Killebrew p- played first base?
Uh-huh.
It could have been.
Oh yes.
Ed Sullivan's program.
Uh, his twenty year anniversary.
Oh he had lots of stars on.
Uh- U-  Jack Paar,  uh,  I can't call all those stars but I think that was really good.
No, I don't watch an- any of the stories, but I do watch the news.
N- In the news, I think Chet Huntley and David Brinkley is may favorite news.
Yes, and David Brinkley's from North Carolina, and that's what make me like him so well.
Y- yes.
No, I don't go to the movie.
No, I don't go to the movie.
The last time I went to the movie, I went to see Gone With the Wind.
You know how many years it's been ago.
Right, and I want to see it  when they revise it here.
Well, you know Clarke Gable, I can't think of all those stars, but it was really good.
I really enjoyed Gone with the Wind.
Well, it's-  I can't  recall the story of it now.
No, I don't have a pet.
Yeah, we had dogs.
Well we had the hound and the beagles.
See they was for hunting.
When I was growing up, I was a great hunter.
Oh yes.
Well we hunt squirrels, rabbits and coons at night and possum- We go to hunt at night for those.
Well, the dog  would tree-  would-  the possum.
Then the- then the possum would go up the tree, and someone would climb the tree  and catch the possum.
See a possum won't bite you.
But a coon- Uh- When he would go up the tree, you always have to shoot him because coon will tear you all to pieces.
Mm-hm.
Yes, but they'll tear you all to pieces.
Uh, we carried him home and-  and put him up and feed him for over a month.
See, then he'll be ready to kill.
And see, then you skin him, and you sell his hide.
And at that time, back in the countries his hide would always sell for six or eight dollars.
See you cure his hide.
Now the coon hide, you get  um, thirty five  to forty dollars  you know.
Mm-mm.
Uh-huh.
Um.
Well there are lots of people  went out  for  the mink hunting,  but  n- n- That was a little rough because you had to be so particular, you couldn't leave your scent when you set your trap.
Now lots of people did catch the minks,  and- and- they got good money for those hide when they killed 'em proper.
Oh yes.
Yes, find 'em in the swamps in- on the rivers.
You know, North Carolina joins Dismal Swamp.
You know in History, you read a lot about Dismal Swamp.
Well, when we leave home, we would go out into the forest,  and they just walk around and run around til they pick up the scent of the track.
Seen, then they would trail.
Well, I think it's just a instinct of a dog.
N- I don't think so.
It's just a i- instinct.
But- but- I will say, now when a dog was small when you raise 'em,  see they'll follow the older dog and the older dog teach 'em quite a bit.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Oh- oh-  When it's cured proper.
Mm-hm.
Uh, well my favorite subject was History.
Uh-huh.
Well,  i- in History-  See, w- when I was in s- school, George Washington had passed over a hundred years.
You read about his life.
Abraham Lincoln's life  and  Thomas Jefferson  and lot of the great  inventors that invented s- things that s- meant a lot to us today.
I just enjoyed reading about it.
Uh, well, you know north of Virginia  i- is known as tide water.
Uh, uh, w- well,  you know Dismal Swamp  had some of the worst grizzly bear  I think  in- anywhere we have in this country.
Not speaking of the foreign country,  an- and I think  uh, those animals that  Dismal Swamp had, that's why made it go down in History.
O- Oh yes.
Now you take north of about two hundred and ten miles from here,  and when you would go through  Petersburg and go four sixty through Suffolk,  you had to go through the heart of Dismal Swamp.
I-  uh- I don't think so because I was down there September,  and the people were telling me  they still see those bears.
Yes.
Mm.
Oh no.
No you take i-  Right near here.
We have the deers and everything, but you don't have any bears around here.
Th-  Now Dismal Swamp is the nearest place I can tell about the bears.
Oh- oh- uh- uh- Well when they go bear hunting, they always go on horseback., because too dangerous, and they always carry the high power rifles because  if you just shoot a bear with a ordinary shot gun,  unless you have buckshot  he'll grab up leaves and stop hisself from bleeding and come for you.
For bear hunting?
Oh no.
Well you know North Carolina at that day,  you had history, E- English,  uh,  Spelling and- and-  and we had two foreign languages so you could take Latin, uh,  uh, French.
Well, I taken Latin but I can't recall too much of it now.
It's been so many years.
Uh- uh- I didn't take French.
I took Latin.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, see, you had a choice of two.
See you had to take  one of the subjects to graduate from high school.
Well, uh, all my teachers was pretty nice.
Uh, now my English teacher, I m- mind her very much because    she had us all  boys,  and  she always was on me because I was very mischievous, but after years pass, I mind her very much for it.
Uh, n- n- not getting my lesson.
Well,  it- it- it wasn't a pi-  pick.
She was trying to help me,  and at that age, you know, I didn't want to hear it.
Well, n- n- no longer than  two weeks ago, I saw her at my sister's funeral,  and I told her  how much I minded her for it then.
At that time I couldn't see it but I saw it  now.
Yes, I- I- I'm going to say  Miss RD-NAME-3.
Now she's married, and it's RD-NAME-3.
Well, now  she would always take  more interest  in not only me, all the children than some of the other teachers that I've had.
It really is.
Oh- uh- Oh yes.
Oh yes.
Well it was pretty miserable.
I had a teacher when I was in the elementary school  that just started at the school.
I was left handed,  and she always whipped me for writing left handed.
She always wanted me to write right handed.
And to the day, I'll never forget that I remember her for that.
And I remember those days  when  she got angry and wouldn't even let me go to the blackboard.
At that time, you know, you had blackboards  a- to write.
All the other classes go to the back board and write.
I couldn't because I couldn't write in my right hand.
No.
We didn't ever play any tricks on the teacher because  our teachers were very strict.
Oh no.
No indeed.
No.
But the kids in the classroom, we played tricks on them, put tacks in the chairs and-  and pinned their coat  down to the seat.
They go to get up, they have to take the whole chair up.
Uh, that's about all in school.
Oh yes.
Th- the kids that lived in my community.
See we always went around together.
No.
As the years pass by,  you never see 'em anymore.
Now?
N- No, the man live the next door to me,  we still see  quite- quite a bit, but  now  at fifty, see, I don't get around like I used to.
Uh- uh in the country, when I was growing up, no see, in the country where I growed up,  a white person live here, a Negro live there.
And it wasn't as much in the country as it was in the city when I first left.
Oh, no.
Just what they learned in school.
Oh- oh yes.
You know, that's always the  case.
See, in any community, there is one kid that  you look up to and follow most.
Uh- uh- Well, that was um,  a boy that u-  His name was RD-NAME-4.
Well, he's a fine person and  see, he- he liked to sing.
In the- At- During that time, we always had quartets and had courses and everything.
And he could sing better I thought, and so  uh, he- he always organized those things and the other things, we always  leave it to him to organize because uh,  he- he worked  pretty good i- in the community.
On things like that.
Yes.
Well, in the country, until I-  I was twenty one when I left there.
See, you didn't have new people to move in.
It was just the regular bunch.
Well- Uh, I'm sure we'd have been more than glad to have them with us.
All together different here.
Mm.
W- Well,  when I was a little boy,  I used to hear my forefathers and elderly men sit and talk.
They said, if I had my life to live again, I would live it so much differently.
Well, I was a little boy then, and I always said to myself then,  I said, now when I get that age,  I don't d- be able to say those words.
I- I want to say  that  the days I've passed I lived it so well, I don't regret it.
Oh sure, that's the way I feel now.
Well, when I was a child, I wanted to be a brick layer.
Well, Yes.
Uh- uh,  h- I- I-  take this  course in school when I came out of the service.
And I learned to be a brick layer by trade.
Well the cold winter months,  you didn't work.
I know there was times I traveled from city to city.
Uh, you work  two, three hours a day when it freezing.
Well,  I decided to look for something different.
Course the money were good, but  I looked at it this way, if I could get a inside job  in twelve months,  it'll amount to the same.
See, in the summer,  there's some time when you catch up with the carpenters or  you have to wait for 'em to pour concrete.
You walk around two or three days and  so, the job I have now  amounts, uh  about as much as the average brick layer make.
Yes.
Uh, the GI school here on fourteenth street.
W- Well, it was just instructors there  to teach you how to build corners,  th- that teach you how to build a fireplace,  and teach you how to lay bricks on the line and everything.
Uh, well, just three months.
Uh- Uh- Oh, I worked in- You mean what cities I worked- brick laying work?
Uh- uh- We build houses and apartments.
See, a brick layer,  see, he would go around and find a  contractor that needed brick layers see?
Oh- oh yes.
See just- Uh- uh, no.
Uh, just yourself,  it's this company  had a large  contract,  well sometime it last a year and a half or so.
Well,  when uh,  he finish his building,  Let's say if he had a new building.
It take from three to four months to get ready for brick layers, you know.
For digging out the foundation,  pouring concrete to get ready for a brick layer.
And see, that's why  you work from company to company.
Oh, oh, no.
I never joined a union.
Well,  I'm a  kind of good Christian,  uh,  I would spread it amongst the needy.
That's right.
That's right.
U- Uh,  yes.
You know, different organization.
Well, one.
I'm a fond of children  Uh, you ever heard of the Catholics home they had had  for the-  the children that don't have fathers and mothers.
Well, th- that's the first place.
Well, that's the problem n- now.
We have so many people in need and  hunger right here in America  I don't think I would ha- have that much left.
No indeed.
Uh- uh- uh- uh- Enough to live on.
Like I'd pick up the paper.
Now right here in Mississippi I was reading about not long ago,  now they has counters in Mississippi  but the average person only make three hundred dollars a year.
That's right.
Three hundred dollars a year.
Now that's happening right here in Mississippi and Alabama.
Well, i- it's pr- pretty rough.
Uh, a few years ago, about three years ago, you know Mr Drew Pearson got a -  a lot of criticism  because he and Dick Gregory  loaded up these here cargo planes, and- You might read about it- and send it down for Christmas.
Mm-hm.
See I always had a tender feeling for the person that  was a little bit unfortunate than I am.
U- Uh- I'm property and supply clerk.
And i- i- in a day's work, see, I issue supplies for all the local board.
After- After I issue supplies,  I- I have to put it on record.
By reposition.
Uh- Uh, no.
See, all our local boards is right here in one building.
Now, if I w-  was property and supply  clerk just for  the state of Maryland,  see,  I- I would have to mail it out to the various local board.
Uh- Uh- Well, pencils, paper,  a thousand and fifty different phones that you use  for local board, they have to be issued.
Oh, yes.
We have eleven hundred and seven different phones  that we use i- in state headquarters.
Don't like it would take that many phones to get a man in Service, do it?
Well, It's a great diff- At Christmas ever to my mother pass ei- eight years ago,  I would always go to North Carolina  to spend Christmas with my mother.
But now, my wife and I,  our stepson is growing up now, you know.
When you get twenty years old, you know, it's no more fun.
It always gone.
We just celebrate a quiet Christmas at home mostly now.
Well,  in North Carolina, we had beautiful decoration.
Holly, Cedar and everything.
And w-  you know,  the mother,  when she get old, she just enjoyed  seeing us decorate for Christmas, and you know in N-  in- in the country, that's when we had that big dinner on Christmas day, and the whole family  come in and join.
Well, chicken, turkey,  you know down there we have hogs and cows, beef.
And most people around there, all they would kill a hog for Christmas Oh yes.
Uh, well, it was six of us in our family.
When some of 'em got married, see,  it was there husband and- and wives and some had children, and their children.
And so you know, it was quite a few people.
Well the best Christmas present I ever got-  When I was  twenty one years old  my father bought me a nineteen thirty Ford.
I think that's the happiest Christmas I ever witnessed.
It was a nineteen thirty Ford.
Oh, i- it kind of looked like a buggy.
Uh-huh.
oh, I- I- I kept it until I went to the Army.
Nineteen forty two.
Mm-hm, I kept- I- it was almost four years.
Uh- uh- Uh- I was in quartermaster.
Huh, uh- Well,  I- I- I worked in the PS.
Special Service.
And I spent four years and eighteen days  in the Service.
That was during World War II when things was pretty hot.
No, spent four years and eighteen days in the United States.
That was really luck.
When I was in the Service?
No.
In the Service, I- I- I have never been in that situation.
No.
Well, that's the way I feel.
Yes.
No, I really don't.
Because I-  We don't know about it, but I think your future's already mapped out.
Oh, no.
No.
Y- Believe, that's right.