Um, Hide and Seek,  um,  um, Ring Around the Roses,  um, Hopscotch.
Well,  let's see .
Um,  first um,  you get about f-  I guess as many people as you want, about five or six,  and then you-  there's one-  first who- f- first person who bes it,  And then  the rest goes and hides,  and then  the p-  person say, ready or not, here I come.
And  whoever's last  is the persons who's it next.
Uh, well,  you form a circle  and then you  sing a song.
Say, ring around the roses.
And then  .
Um,  Peyton Place  and  Invaders.
Yeah.
I haven't looked at it in too long I guess.
We'll see.
Um,  what do you mean, like a preview or a uh- Well,  um,  well Mon- Well,  Monday I saw where um,  Norman Harrington and uh, Joe Rossi  got in a um,  a accident with this  oncoming car, and  they wasn't um- Norman, he didn't get hurt too bad, but Joe Rossi did.
And-  and then um,  well uh,  Norman, he came home.
That was all.
Uh,  well if-  I mean if I haven't seen it in a long time, do I still have to give you- Mm.
Um- I can't- Oh it's about  um,  these aliens from the-  this planet.
And this um-  this man from Earth, he's trying to um,  t-  tell- you know, tell people about them, but-  I mean he tells 'em,  and he finds clues but  some people won't believe him.
And so he goes on- on til he can, you know, find a clue.
No.
Mm.
No.
Well,  um,  well it's large, and it has-  it's-  it's mixed with a lot of students.
And  it's- it's about- it's about one of the best schools in Washington.
N-  Um, subjects?
Um,   English, Biology,  um, World History,  Physical Education,  um, Typewriting I and-  and Record Keeping.
I guess the most things I did was stay- stay in the house.
Cause I didn't play a lot.
Oh,  yes.
Uh.
Um,  no.
Well,  um,  I say it- It's in Biology.
Well these boys,  they don't do their work.
And she gets up and she just holler at 'em.
You know if like,  at least anything they do, she's holler- she hollered at 'em.
Yeah I think it was fair cause they weren't- you know, they weren't doing what they supposed to.
Um,  the- Let's see.
Best teacher I had was Miss RD-NAME-2.
She's a sewing teacher.
Mm, cause she- she got along with everybody.
She wasn't mean.
No.
Mm.
No.
You say who are they?
And just-  Well, at- just at school cause  that's the only time I see 'em.
I don't see 'em  after- you know, after school.
I don't see 'em.
Um,  no.
No.
No.
Mm-mm.
If he wants to.
Mm,  I don't know.
He do- he doesn't have to do a particular thing.
A nurse.
Mm.
Well you have like four years.
A nurse, she helps um,  people who in need of help.
Put it in the bank.
Hm.
Like at home or?
Oh.
Well,  first thing I do I help my mother cook.
And then-  Like that?
Uh,  um,  then we uh- guess I wash the dishes and then after that,  well for about  two hours and a half until my um, brothers s- go to bed, I help them.
Then we um-    I mop the floors,  things like that.
By being together.
Something- New Years.
Uh,  we um-  most of the time we goes out  on Easter.
And  on New Years my mother and father go out, and we just stays home.
Hm,  um,    like a-  Oh, let's see.
A radio, I guess.
Well,  a doll.
Well, she was about  um,  two-  two inches  I guess- No, three inches tall.
She had black hair.
And  sh-  she was um-  she was a colored doll.
No.
Yeah, I say the thame- same thing.
It's gonna happen, just gonna happen.
Can't prevent it.