Well I played  Hopscotch,  Double Dutch,    and Hide and Go See.
And  that's all.
Well you draw  a block  on- You know, it be blocks in the street,  and you just put numbers on, like one and two.
Then three,  then four and five.
Then you, um, throw it, um-  a piece of glass or anything on the number.
The first number, number one.
Then you hop-  You don't step on your n-  number you put the rock on.
You step on the next number, and go on up to um, last number.
Like-  No.
You don't step- If you step on the line, you-  you be out.
Um, if your rock go off the number you put in on, you out too.
So, last person, uh,    you know, don't miss or nothing, step on nine, they win.
Hide and Go See.
Well,      you um,    you know y-  n-  you- It'd be one person who standing  hiding their face, and the other pr- peo-  people had to go and hide somewhere,  and the- the person who was hiding their face,  they had to go find the people in-  They-  they had to touch the um,  tree or some-  In- That they had their face on.
Go run back and touch it.
And,  if they touch it-  If they find the last person,  and last person run to the tree before them,  well the- the- the one person who t- touched the tree,  they um,  be the person who hide their face.
Uh-huh.
Well you choose.
Like    you put your f- like, you put your feet- all us put our feet in, and  they, you know, like,  they just say a number  or- They j- We have some-  something made up about Tarzan.
You know, what color his blood, and-  and- and-   Uh-huh.
Tarzan, yeah.
I know this one, Tarzan.
Tarzan was in the tree, and he fell out.
And what cl-  color was his  blood?
And   then you say a color, any color.
Like you say red.
You spell the word red.
Know-    Then-  then you out- like the last person, they it.
Mm-hm.
No.
Yeah.
Regular kind.
Just shoot the marble.
If you shoot the m-  Just shoot the marbles!
That's all.
Yeah, Double Dutch.
Double Du-?
No, all you-  you- you just um-  First, they going to say um,  Double Dutch .
D - I - S - H - D - I - S - H like that.
Then you know, you got to jump  til you miss- They be counting numbers.
Can you- No.
No.
Mm-mm.
Yes.
Juliette,  Mod Squad,  and Laugh In  and    and Beverly Hillbillies and  - .
Uh,    I don't watch it that much now.
Only gr- Uh, yeah.
Last week- I mean Tuesday when it came on,  they were showing a  colored preacher, and   some people don-  It was some white people af-  af- uh-  after colored peof-  preacher.
V-  Um- They was gonna kill him.
So, the mod-  People who play on the m-  play in the mod squad,  they ain't let the um, preacher, d-  um, get s- killed.
And-   Well, some thing he did to this boy brother, and they was after him.
And    l-  They missed a p- When the preacher was coming out the door with  the people who play in the mod squad and another colored boy    it- the  colored boy got shot.
They thought it- They um- they shot the um,  preacher, but they didn't but they shot  the colored boy.
So,  they took the colored boy to the hospital   and  he was alright.
Tue- Uh-huh.
It was about  uh, what that little boy?
Not Corey.
The one- the- Uh-huh.
Yeah, Earl J.
Waggendor.
He said that his mother ain't love him.
His mother love  the little baby more than he did- Love- She love him.
So he went and stayed- ran away.
He was upstairs with Julia,  Corey and them.
And so,  I think-  All I know is that  when he came back down-  His- his father went up there  and got him, and brought him back home.
And his mo- and the little baby, he was sick.
And they ain't know what to do.
And  the little  Earl J.
Waggendor,    He told his mother what to do  about the baby.
So,  so then his mother- He loved  Co- I mean not Corey-  Earl J.
Waggendador,  so Earl J.
Waggendor was glad.
Mm-hm.
It was alright.
It wasn't fun- that funny.
Laugh In.
I s-  uh- uh- um.
No,  not no more.
Last stage show.
Yeah.
At the Howard Theater.
Um,  Gladys Knight and the Pips, Judy someth-.
I don't know her last name,  and    I forgot who else.
And I wanted go see this stage show, but I didn't.
They was- It- it was there.
They left last night.
They was- It was um,    Johnny Taylor,  people who sing- The p- People who sing Give it Up,  and  I've- I don't know the rest.
Uh, The Temptation    James Brown, too-  Smokey Robinson and Miracles and    l- I don't know no more.
I go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  well, in the morning time  I take-  First I take Science from Miss RD-NAME-2,  and     s- on the second period, I take-  No,  on Mon-  Mondays and Wednesday and Friday I take Music from um,  Mister RD-NAME-1.
And on-  on the other days we don't take music, we take  Gym on  Tuesday and Thursday from Miss um,   RD-NAME-3,   and on the third period I take  Social Studies  from Mister RD-NAME-2.
And on fourth period,  I take English- English from Miss um,  RD-NAME-1.
And on the fifth period, I eat lunch,  and after lunch, on the sixth period,  I um, take math from Mister RD-NAME-2.
And, on the seventh period, I take reading.
On the eighth period, I take French.
No.
Math.
Oh, we doing  geometry now.
Eighth.
It's hard.
I don't know- I don't understand it.
I just like Math.
No.
I don't know- I just like  better than my other subjects.
N- I don't have no favorite teacher ev- Yeah,  in the um,   first grade.
Um,  Miss  RD-NAME-2 I just like her- I don't know.
I just like- Yeah, she was- She was nice and kind to everybody.
Oh,    all we did was r-  read  and work  and go outside and play.
Has- Mm-hm.
Oh,  now we doing plays.
G-  Oh now we're gonna do a play on The Miracle-  Miracle Worker.
Mm-hm.
No, I don't like to read.
No.
Mm-mm.
Um,    the worst,   In the sixth grade, I ain't hardly like my sixth grade teacher.
Miss RD-NAME-2, I ain't hardly like her.
Cause she act too mean.
Um,  she was strict a lot.
Uh- Uh- no.
When we ask to go out, she ain't let us go out.
And when we go out and  on the side.
She don't like what we do, she bring us in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Our- our Math teacher.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
It's a he.
Um, children, they don't mind him  and he start hollering   and getting upset.
And- Sometime.
Cause sometime I be sleeping, and-  and I don't feel like doing no work, then he start holl-  like today he got mad  at me because I ain't know the answer.
I don't know Geometry that g-.
I just like Math.
I don't know.
No, I get the- Sort of.
No, I just like- I don't- He alright though.
Well, I- I just like Math better than any other subject.
Well I go home,  I look at Dark Shadows and after Dark Shadows go out, I go to sleep.
Uh-huh.
No.
No, I wake up and look at TV.
If we have some, I do it sometimes.
Yeah.
I don't-  I don't like to study that much.
No, I don't go outside that much.
I stay in the house.
Mm-mm.
I don't hang with her.
Yeah, she my friend, but I don't hang with her that much.
Yeah.
Sleep.
Yeah, I w- getting home from school.
Uh-huh.
Some-  Twelve o'clock, some.
Yeah.
Um,  seven o'clock.
Today I got up six thirty.
I thought it was seven thirty.
And-   Yeah.
I sleep all the time in school.
I be so tired.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah I got one this time.
I mean, second semester.
I got um,    in um,  Family Living-  We don't take it no more.
We take Science instead of Family Living.
I got a B.
And,  in um,    Music, I got a A.
And in Gym, I got a  B  or a C.
And-  and in   Math,  f- I got a C plus.
And in Social Studies, I got a  C plus.
And in um,   Reading- On the first one I did.
First report card we got,  I got a-  All my other grades were good, b-  but I got a s-  F in Family Living first time.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Don't play a lot.
Listen to the teacher.
Fifteen.
Yeah, I went to one last Friday.
It  good.
We had a band.
Yeah, I had some f- It was f-  I had fun though.
See, when I go to Study Hall every week, they gave it.
Study Hall.
On Thursday, we go to this church and  know, we have volunteer  who help us with our homework and st- Day-     S- The church down there on New Y-  New York Avenue.
Yeah, it's a red  church.
Red  and white.
I don't know.
I don't know the name of it.
I forgot.
We- we ate.
And that's all, and we danced a lot.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Ricky.
Um, when I went to um, Shaw last-  last-  last year in seventh grade.
No.
Uh-huh.
He go to Shaw.
Well he come in my house sometime.
He- She ain't- she don't know say nothing.
Uh-huh.
A lot, too.
I got three brothers and   seven sisters.
Third one.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-4.
Spanish.
Shaw.
She go to Shaw school.
Uh-uh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, go to my school, yeah.
In my room.
Mm-mm.
Nobody.
Mm.
No.
Well   when we were living on tenth streeth,  and  it was this house by us and   it was these people who used to live there- They still- Oh.
It was these people who um, live next door to us,  and we    uh when we little,  we had- We- we used to have fun,  talking about we getting married.
And- and you know play like we was married to ea-    to each other.
Mm-hm.
No.
It wasn't- When I was in elementary-  in the third grade.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I want to be a teacher.
Well you gotta go f-  go to college,  and I don't wanna go- I wanna go, but I don't know I'm going.
I don't know.
My mother say we might don't go.
I don't know.
I'm not smart.
Yeah.
Oh I like  children a lot.
I like- Mm-hm.
I don't-  Um- Nuff- Be friends Yeah.
Million dollar.
Yeah.
I'd go downtown.
Spend- Buy me some clothes, shoes, and - and  that's all.
And keep the rest  case I go to college.
Yeah.
They be working some  during Christmas.
They be working.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
They separated.
But, you know, my father still stay at our house sometime.
She work at a hospital.
He- he do construction work.
I just stayed in the house,  look at TV, go to sleep.
No, didn't go f-  Might g-  go visit my friends.
We ain't have one this time.
No.
Yeah, so far.
Uh-huh.
No.
I don't- What do you mean?
Sometimes I don't.
No.
Not sometime.
I do.
Uh-huh.