I don't know that.
I don't know.
No.
She work out there in Silver Spring.
Uh, she- I think she a chairwoman.
My mother was born in uh, Fredericksburg, and my father was born in North Carolina.
I play basketball, football, and baseball.
Volleyball, kickball.
Yes.
I don't go out in street and holler at no  times at night.
Yes.
Basketball.
No- no ma'am.
I go home and go to prayground.
Football.
All you have to- Just one man, he g- go to the huddle.
Whenever he say- Whenever play he tell you to do you do it.
When he throw the ball, you catch it and run for a touchdown.
Yes ma'am.
Many.
Many as you want.
Whole lot.
No ma'am.
Four.
Basket.
Sometimes.
Ma'am?
I don't know that.
Yes, ma'am, in the summer.
Home.
Jump rope.
No ma'am.
My sister do.
Four.
Most of the time, I look at the basketball games.
Yes, I look at Batman on channel twenty, and Green Hornet.
It was him and the Boy- Boy Wonder, they always fighting criminals.
Robin.
Robin.
Chiller.
Ma'am?
We used to but my sister, she have asthma.
We can't have it now.
We used to have  a Great Dane.
Yes.
Yes.
She had it um-  Before- before my sister was born, we had the dog.
When she was born, she was allergic to it.
Mother just- They gave it away.
Yes, ma'am.
Ask for it.
Yes.
Wish I can have the white horse.
Four leaf clover.
I think you rub it.
Yes.
I don't know that.
Uh,  break the bone and whoever got the biggest one that-  they would make a wish on it.
They don't- They don't make no wish.
Ma'am.
If I lose mine, I-  I want I wish for a new one.
One year.
Yeah.
I'm studying- Now, I was just in my math class.
Woodwork,  Geography,  Science,  English,  and Gym.
Chairs, people,  and the boards, the lights,  and the floor and the desks.
The hall.
To the water fountain.
In my locker.
I have to keep going.
I go on the second floor, the first, and the third.
You go up the steps.
When we go out?
On sixth period, I take Gym.
On lunch period, they don't let you go outs- When they used to let you go out.
They play football.
A yard.
They play.
They go the uh, Hot Shoppe and buy they food.
They then go out on the prayground and play football.
Then they just play tag  and run  around.
No, ma'am.
No.
Yes, it's a big old thing, and  go like that and you got-  it-  it's a big thing out  and it got lots of  poles in it.
And like blocks.
Yes.
It's- the playground I go right across the street from me,  it have monkey bars, slap boards and swings.
Yes ma'am.
Most of 'em get jobs,  go to work.
Some just play.
Yes.
Sometime I stop at the Hot Shoppe and buy something to eat.
Ma'am?
Yes.
Running relay.
Yes.
No.
I had one in the second grade.
Her name Miss RD-NAME-1.
You drop your pencil,  something like that,  and she'll get mad.
And then  she- One time, she picked me up and let- dr- drop me on the floor,  then she took this boy in a coat named RD-NAME-3.
Start to beating him  cause he made a funny face.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes ma'am.
See sometime, the children, th- they be bothering you while you try and do your work.
Start talking and then she'll think it's you.
Then she'll go around  start hollering at you.
No.
They keep talking and sometime when they be talking I might talk back to 'em.
Sometime I don't.
I be doing my work, and she'll think it's me.
Raising sand.
Best teacher I had was in the sixth grade,  and-  and the third,  and the seventh grade,  the- my English class.
Yeah, Mister RD-NAME-1.
Yes.
He don't yell at you or nothing.
He nice.
Like you make a mistake,  like you talk or something, he'll ask you to be quiet.
The other teacher just yell at you and everything.
Then like, y- you get a- like get all your work right,  he'll tell you if you're doing good work.
But the other teacher, they won't tell you nothing.
If you get a U, they make you do it all over.
Mister RD-NAME-1-  I got one F in his room one time.
He ain't make me do it all over.
Yes.
Yeah.
Miss RD-NAME-3.
Yes, ma'am.
She just like the one in- in- in the second grade.
Like um-  Like um,  when they have an assembly- Well when they have assemblies at school,  Miss RD-NAME-3, before we getting ready to go- she- she be sha-  she yell at you and make her get on line.
Like somebody get on line late,  she give 'em a F.
Somebody talk on line,  when we get ready to go home at three o'clock.
When we get out- leave out the door,  somebody say- seen you- somebody just say- somebody say someone else too smart until they get out the door.
She give 'em another F.
Yes.
Throw erasers at her.
Sit it in her chair.
Stick- put  uh, tacks in her chair.
Nothing but give 'em a Fs, and take 'em to Miss RD-NAME-2.
Miss RD-NAME-2  suspend 'em from school.
There- i- aren't none.
Everybody just the same.
With lip?
She always getting smart at with the teacher.
And this one girl, when I was in the sixth and the fifth grade,  she-  sh-  In the fifth grade, the teacher,  she always like the girl.
She start something with the children.
She always go running to the teacher,  and the teacher take up for her.
And then when it come to work,  when it's something real hard,  the teacher l-  she always go to your teacher.
And the teacher tell her to answer, but she won't tell nobody else to her.
And then that's how- And then  teacher called up to the boy,  she try to act all smart and then she write the answer,  then  when she sit down and see-  every time the teacher calls-  hm, and every time like, somebody gets something wrong,  then she go acting all cute and raising her hand and  answering the question.
Yes.
When I was in the fifth grade,  teacher, she always give that other girl  nickels, dimes,  quarters,  and dollars.
Yes.
No ma'am.
A boy-  A boy name RD-NAME-2.
Never come to school and never did his work.
I come to school every day.
Always getting in trouble and breaking in people houses.
Yes.
He hit-  He hit the principal one time.
They took him to down the police station.
Three o'clock, and I get home at four.
Go pass  Hot Shoppe,  in the store and buy something.
I feel good.
Na na na na na.
I have to be to school  by uh,  the quarter- nine o'clock bell ring, and we have to be at school be- before  at- by nine o'clock.
And when the girl call roll off, you come in after n- a-  nine o'clock,  you late.
Yes, I a- I always get to school quarter a-  quarter after eight.
No.
Most of the other boys, the big boys here, they try to act all bad.
Yes, they always picking on- Most of the boys, they take them boys lunch money.
Yeah.
You know, like they say, loan me a nickel.
Say, I don't have it.
They check you, then they take your money.
Yes.
Boy name RD-NAME-1  and RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-3,  RD-NAME-3.
And my brother RD-NAME-2 and my cousin RD-NAME-2.
Yes.
They go to this school.
Almost all- all of 'em are fourteen except  well this one is sixteen, my cousin RD-NAME-2.
And all rest of 'em,  the fourteen except RD-NAME-4 and RD-NAME-3.
They're thirteen.
Twelve.
No, I know a boy speak a lot of different languages.
I don't know what Polish is.
Yeah, that boy.
He speak all kinds of langauge.
Yes.
Speaking S- Mexican, he talk all funny when he say it.
No ma'am.
Yes.
No.
Yes, RD-NAME-3, Not all the time cause he always clowning around.
Yes he t- He taller than all of 'em.
No, he big and tall.
If he can play  and he ain't- and he  all bad.
Basketball, football, and if he don't wrong- bad things.
Yes.
Go to college.
Mm-  Be a scientist.
Yes.
We do experiments  on the heart  and the human body.
We draw pictures.
We go to  pl-  places where they- they have the human body,  and they let us touch the-  the body  and  put a glove on and move all sorts of things in the human body.
Uh, this kind of place- I don't know w- what's the name of it.
They take us out  s- all the time.
I don't really know that.
Experiment on things.
Learn- They learn more about  uh- what- learn more about f-  things, like in space.
Or in human bodies.
They experiment on creatures,  animals.
All sorts of things.
Yes ma'am.
I'd buy things, but I couldn't spend it all.
I wouldn't have- I- I don't h- I wouldn't have enough to time.
I- By the time I get- be finished tryna spend it all, I probably be gone by now.
First thing I would do, go downtown and buy some- buy some clothes  and buy something to eat.
Bring- buy my mother- bring my mother something back  for my sister and brother.
Buy my mother a-  Buy my mother some clothes.
My brother- especially,  my mother and my sister.
They always b- every time they go downtown, they always bringing me s-  some pants or shirts  or some socks.
Northwest.
Ma'am?
Yes.
S- There's Second, First,  Third, Fourth, Fifth on up to Twelfth.
They go on more.
They keep- They start from First Street and keep going.
Right here?
This Northwest.
This area is Northwest.
We-  This just Washington.
Rhode Island,  North Capital,  and uh Second Street is m- large,  and First.
The White House down- uh, town?
I-  I don't know what street that on.
Nixon.
No ma'am.
Tenth and V.
RD-NAME-5.
Big highway?
No ma'am.
I don't know that.
In Washington.
All-  I lived here all my life.
Yes.
We b- When I was born, we used to live on  A Street.
Second.
At this school?
We been to Treasury Department,  uh,  the uh, FBI Building, and my homeroom teacher,  she's taken her s- second and first grade- our class-  to a trip.
You got be dressed up.
I think it's a restaurant.
Yes.
To her hometown.
Fredericksburg.
Yes.
And I go where my father live in North Carolina.
And sometime-  one time,  my- my- father, he was on his- when he- when I first-  One time he came over here,  over our house,  for a week.
And then, he had a lot of money.
And it was his vacation.
But we don't know where he live at now  cause he gone.
And he took me and my little brother  in Florida  and brung us back.
My mother, she celebrate  s- New Year's Eve,  Thanksgiving,  and um, Halloween.
That's all I know.
A saxophone.
I play with Mister RD-NAME-2.
His orchestra.
If I weren't here now, I'd be down  with uh, Mister RD-NAME-2 now.
No ma'am.
I play at two- three- We have- I have to go to him  at two thirty.
Yes ma'am.
No ma'am.
The big pool table.
Yes ma'am.
It start where that chair at,  it end about right here.
Yes ma'am.
All you got to do is set the balls up,  and hit  the white ball.
And the white ball hit all the rest of the balls.
Then the ball go in the pocket.
On Halloween?
Went out Trick or Treating  with my little brothers.
We went out in Silver Spring  where my mother worked at, and we do-  well she worked there, and the man, her boss, he gave us lots of candy.
And we went around our way.
No ma'am.
Witches.
Pumpkins.
A j- jack o'lantern.
Trick or Treat.
They give you the candy.
Uh,  I don't know.
If I had- If I had my joke book, I would.
You see, when you shake hands with 'em,  and just shock 'em.
Yes.
No ma'am.
I just got in my brother- my oldest brother pants.
Yes, they always be fights.
Just because some people fight,  just because other people do something.
It's like somebody get my answer right, then they do-  they start to arguing.
Then might could somebody always talking about, my brother can beat your brother.
They get to fighting.
Then all the- They go get people.
And the whole family start coming at the school.
Then when they stop fighting, they suspended from school.
Ma'am?
You don't pick up bottles and nothing else.
You fight with your just bare fists.
No, they fight dirty, go pick up bottles,  knives, and they  cut you.
Some- One day, it was a boy fighting another boy, and the a boy drew a knife on him,  and the other boy f-  the other boy picked up a wine bottle and hit him in the head.
Rocks.
Anything you see, bricks.
No.
You just go ahead on home then.
Just walk on away from 'em.
I'd ask him why was he fighting?
Try to break it up.
You grab one- You hold like a- two boy-  like one boy right here, another one, and you stick your hand out and hold him back.
Yeah.
Yes.
It was on New Year's Eve.
And this man, he had on all white, and some boy, he just got his check, three hundred dollars.
When out this store, I saw him.
He had three- The man was counting three hundred dollars out, and he put in his hand.
And he musta had it that three hundred dollars on him when he went out New Year's Eve.
Some boys- He had on a white shirt and everything.
They jump and they took his clothes-  took all of his clothes and all his money  except his shoes  and his shirt.
Yeah, they made it- they hit him on the face,  and when he went- went- he lived on U Street- when he went back,  d- he had blood all over his shirt.
They got him right up by his eye.
No, he went in- and he went right back in the house.
The ambulance came around, the police- Man, he couldn't talk.
He was scared to tell them where they was at.
He musta knew 'em.
No.
No ma'am.
They double team you, two against one,  three against one, all kinds like that.
Team you.
Like you fight  one person, somebody else see it and they don't want  you to beat 'em,  they go jump in it too.
Mm, some of 'em when-  and when  gangs be fighting, they always say  if you see somebody- if you slack up,  you be fighting somebody else.
Help 'em out.
Yes.
I swallowed a penny one time,  and it was stuck right in here, and I had to get it out- They had to get it out.
When I swallowed it at first, I just thought it was some food.
And then my little- my brother- my brother told me, boy what you swallow a penny for?
And I told him I didn't know wh-  Then my mother rushed me to the hospital.
It was right here.
This was when I was about four  or five years old.
No.
I mean I had chicken pox once.
You get all sorts of bumps on your face.
No, when you scratch 'em they do.
No.
Some of 'em do it.
Like if you scratch 'em,  they leave  scar.
Uh,  if somebody sneeze or cough,  he got a cold.
No.
Yes.
Last summer around on U Street.
Not bad one.
On U Street, a man- the girl, she dashed out in the street.
And a man, he hit the girl- he just got up and the car wouldn't move no more.
Yes.
On the bus on Rhode Island Street.
See the-  there's a Volkswagen.
The Volkswagen speed and then it stop.
And it had- and it slid right across front where the bus was at.
And I was in the back, and a bus hit the uh, Volkswagen.
The bus shook and the Volkswagen top went off in the people.
But then the bus man and it can't- and they flew out of the Volkswagen,  and the one lady,  her neck was hanging over.
It was cut, well you could see it was about that deep cut.
That's when , when that thing bump,  I fell on the floor and I was wondering what happened.
I got back up, it was a accident.
Well my b- Well,  one time my brother he was riding a bike.
Some boy say somebody gonna take your bike,  and the next day he rode it, and he c- and he was coming back,  from off U Street.
Some boys they took it from him.
Front room.
In the kitchen.
I mean in the dining room.
No ma'am.
Bathroom.
In my bedroom.
It- We got- It's a- a house.
Me and my brother, we got room uh,  together.
See we have to e-  and right next to our room is the bathroom.
Then next to that is my sister and my other sister room.
When I go out of my room?
I see my room right here, and then the steps.
I go right down the steps.
In my closet.
A attic.
Yes.
No, ma'am, my mom she doesn't like us up there, but they get- they keep stuff up there.
A basement?
Yes ma'am.
That's where our pool table at.
A roof.
Yes.
No.
No.
No ma'am.
Chimley.
Chimley.
Smoke.
Pipes.
We have one on the side of our house, but I don't know what it is.
Ma'am?
My mother do.
In the back yard.
Store rooms?
Up in the attic.
Yes ma'am.
You gonna record that?
You gonna let me hear it?
Yeah.