Baseball and  running.
Yes such as  we called it  hi spy.
Um running from one  sudden spot to another.
and tagging uh one out  so.
Well sometimes it would be  several of us playing and t- called it tag.
They called him out.
Yes.
Ah h- hi- uh  hi spy I think uh.
Well you're supposed to hide behind a bush and they find you.
Uh  y- you get so many counts for that.
The news.
That's right.
Once in a while.
Not particularly.
Not for some time.
It's been so long I just couldn't recall it right now.
Huh.
Beg pardon?
Pet?
No.
Not particularly no.
Mathematics and history and  geogr-  uh spelling,   I didn't understand.
No   you're going back to over sixty five years ago now so uh no I'll say no.
Yes.
She was uh  exact  spunctuous When she said anything she'll mean it.
I think so.
No I  always got along with them pretty good.
Very few, most- most all of 'em dead.
When I was working?
There's  quite a few of 'em that's living,  I've been retired ten years.
Well not particularly but it  sometimes it's always one  that-  that  people decide.
So.
W- w- well,  I guess that could be measured out in  more than one thing.
His  personality and-  and his loyalty-  loyar  loyalty, and his firmness.
A preacher.
Well there's several things you have to do I-  first you have to be a  a good Christian   I thought of it several times when I was young.
My father was a preacher.
But I never did  get into the  ministry.
for the last  forty years I worked  mostly on the  railroads,  a dining car waiter although I worked in  restaurants and hotels and  various places.
Cook it right on the train.
They do bring it on now  I understand  uh  uh  quite a bit  but not all the din- all the d-  dining cars.
No that's been going on for years and years until it  uh.
Depend on you know what run you have.
Well there's long runs and short runs Well,    long run you would uh  sometime take  th-  three to five days co- com-  to complete the round- round trip and then some would  only take about three days.
Well you'd have to go through the regular routine of uh  preparing, getting ready to serve.
Well  you-  you get up in the morning and uh  you  get ready to serve and  depending on what your position will be whether you be a- a pantryman or or assigned to different  things  that contain to the service.
Mm.
well very fortunate I- I didn't,  but  I've seen it happen.
Well there's not much you can do uh so but uh  the railroads or the company  usually  take care of the  ones that uh  you spill something on.
Oh yes they carry a-  a dormitory car  for the crew  and uh  we have beds and  bunks  sleep in.
Uh we-    we usually celebrate the holidays  very quietly,  mostly home and  and uh  relaxing,  maybe a few friends.
Uh, decorations?
I don't know just what you mean by that.
What?
Oh yes we put up a Christmas tree, yeah.
Well I don't- I wouldn't uh  I wouldn't say that I was in a situation  where I thought I was about to be killed except  the kind of work that I fall on the railroad you're subject get killed any time you know have a wreck or anything like that  you know  course you understand that when you take the job.
No I don't.
Yes I think uh  a lot of things that  that  people  uh  huh,  happen to confront-  and  uh be confronted with  could be avoided.