He w-  you know, sometime they would  tell him to report in,  and he wouldn't do it.
W- Let's see.
We play  baseball-  We play baseball,    kickball, play with frisbees,  and  - Let's see it.
That's about all, unless it's football.
Uh-huh.
In their alleys.
Yeah, well, uh, we play that most of the times.
Let's see.
Um, nothing.
Cause just uh- just my family, we play it cause  I don't get to see nobody else that care too much about playing it.
Uh-huh, I got a whole a fishbowl of those.
Kick the Can!
Uh-uh.
Well let's see,  um,  putting hopscotch-  that's for girls.
Leap Frog?
Leap the  Frog I think.
Uh, nuh-uh.
No, we don't-  We never heard of it.
See uh- You don't know how  to play baseball?
See,    there's a-  a equal team,  five on one side and five on the other.
And then so  one-  if they have trouble  getting-  getting uh-  deciding who's gonna go outfield,  well then they flip a coin.
And if it-  one team decides on head, and one decides on tail.
If it flips on tail,  the one- the other side have to come up  and  this side have to go in the field.
And so-  then so,  I just give 'em  A or B.
The one that's up is  uh, A,  and the other one is- out is B.
So,  this- B has the-  all of 'em-  w- they have a second,  third-  Wait, first, second, third base.
That's when they have a home plate  and a pitcher's mound.
So they-  well the first batter, he hits the ball.
He runs to second.
I mean  the first.
Then so they try to get him out.
Then he keeps on until he makes it back home.
And then they just keep on  until they get three outs.
Then they  rotate.
Um, I- You just put all the boys  in front of it-  All of 'em.
All 'em.
Except  two men,  then so they pick.
Like they put  Robin-  Robin goes behind him,  over there.
If they pick  James, then James go over there.
And if he-  and another one pick  uh, Billy, Billy goes over there.
And then,  the one that gets the last person  he- uh, they'll-  they'll get to- g- get up, but they don't do it that way around there.
Uh, they do it  flip the coin.
Uh-huh.
See um- See everybody- you s- you say, let's play tag!
Then everybody-  Then you say,  Not it!
Not it!
and the last person to say it, they're it.
And then so he tries- He'll touch somebody.
Then so  he's-  the one-  Like if I touch you,  then you it, I'm not it no more until you  touch me or touch somebody else.
Then they're it.
Uh-huh, and then they put that-  and do their hands.
Uh, one potato-  Wait.
I think it's one potato, two potato,  three potato, four.
Five potato, six potato, seven potato, more.
Then they-  if this here is seven potato more,  then they put this one behind your back.
Then they go, One potato, two potato and-  just keep on.
Like if both of my hands be back there well then I'm out.
I'm not out, you know, but um, you know, out while they count.
And the last person gets to be it.
Oh yeah, that's um,    Going across the railroad track.
Let's see-  Let's see.
I don't- I forgot it, but they-  they just keep on  until  somebody laughs.
Somebody has to laugh, I know cause it's funny.
And then, so they just keep on til-  Like if I get out before you do, you it.
But I never played it before, I just watched.
See,  um, equal teams.
Team A and B.
Play like this,  ten on each side.
Wait, six- That's enough to cover the alley, to catch, you know, the ball.
So  Team A,  they stays up kick  the r- uh- and he kicks the ball.
If anybody catches that's automatically out.
Then so he kicks, runs to side-  I mean first.
And then so-  then the next one come up.
He kicks and he goes to uh,  second.
And they didn't get him out yet.
And-  and the one that just kicked, he goes to first.
Then the next one that kicks,  h-  uh-  the one that's on second base goes to third,  then the ones that's on-  on first goes-  Wait a minute.
The ones that's on first go to second.
Then the one that  kick the ball go to f-  uh,  first.
Then the bases are loaded.
And then so  one powerful kicker have to kick 'em in.
That's uh, home-  Wait.
A home run I guess.
Uh, you j- you j- there's-  there's a frisbee about like that,  and there's one like that.
That's- that's the biggest one.
I've never had now one of those.
You take it,  and you uh-  s- sometimes,  you get in different- you spread out.
And you do different  you know tricks with 'em.
Some people do like this here,  and it winds up going sideways.
And if you over here, you have to throw it like that and it'll come to you.
And some people they'll take it,  and, like they lift-  they- they throw it this end, let's say.
And then they'll throw it.
Some people do-  do a trick on you.
They'll do it like that and throw it over.
Well I- I ain't- I ain't learned that one yet, but I-  But I'm going to.
Yeah, um,  they call  not it, not it.
Last person he gets-  Like,  I count at the board.
Well and then,  I would uh-  I would be-  Wait.
I would count, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty five, thirty, thirty five, forty, forty five, fifty,  fifty five, six, sixty five, seven, seventy five, eighty, eighty five, ninety, ninety five, a hundred.
Then so  I say all around my bases or he tee out within you know, amount of feet  cause they sneaky.
They'll-  they'll get right up under you  until you  turn your back.
Then they'll tag.
Then,  so if they do, you-  you say, you're out because they is out because you said amount of feet.
And he was in there.
And so  if you see him  over across the street on the porch,  you say,  out on certain certain person  on the porch across the street,  but you have to call the house's number cause-  because there's a lot of boys be on the porches.
And if the one way up the street-  Cause we can see that way cause they got the lights going straight down the street.
We can see up that way.
Then you call it cause most of them, they be trying to-  my brothers, they be trying to sneak all the way around,  go up through the back, come through the house.
I locked the door one night.
This- they had to come all the way back around on that corner.
That's the way you play Hide and Go Seek.
Let's see.
I mean, just leave them in there until  some- some other people get some marbles.
cause I- The first day I got my marbles, I went out there,  and I  shot a couple-   Excuse me-  marbles with some boys.
They shoot like that.
Pinch the marble.
And they shoot like that.
Huh?
I don't know.
And let's see.
They shoot like that.
I shot- I shoot like this.
And like that.
I don't shoot like that.
I can't shoot like that.
It hurts my  thumb.
And some- My thumb.
And they make a big ring.
Put a-  Put the marbles in there.
Like  me and you are playing for keeps, and you would have to put up  uh-  You could put up like if  you called any number that you want to put up.
Then so you will put up that number.
And I will put up the same number.
So if you g-  If you get all of mine out, you get to keep 'em.
I can't fuss at you cause you got more marbles.
And so    it-  then we just  put 'em all in there,  and draw a line right there and stand inside the part  and throw 'em up there.
Throw w-  th- Like if I have a marble to shoot with, and you have one,  I throw mine up there see can I get closer to the-  to the line than you do.
Then so  I keep on.
Then we  come on  back up this a way,  not throwing the marbles.
You know, bring 'em up.
Shoot from the  circle.
And then we, you know,  just keep on til  one of us-  one of us have to get somebody's marbles.
Yes sir.
Let's see, most of the times I like to see uh,  It Takes a Thief or Mod Squad.
Let's see.
On Saturdays I like to watch cartoons,  but I be out working.
Huh?
Shoe shining  in-  in uh-  in a store.
When I started- When I started out I had a bag.
But now I got a  box about like that.
Got a handle on it.
And so I put  about  a black brush and a brown one.
You know that's-  the uh-  cotton brush  but the wooden-  it's got wood  under it.
And got one of those in brown and one's black.
Put it in there,  and like, if I wanna take my pad and pencil I put it in there  and  put my cloth and polish in there.
And I put my chain in there too.
Hafta  protect myself  cause them dudes they'll take your money.
Them boys.
See when I was at People Drugs going to get some natural shoe polish, some boys started a fight.
No, I was getting my  school supply.
And he started a fight.
Down at Dupont  and going downtown.
And then just  come on back up.
Just keep going until  we decide that we wanna  quit or we wanna go home.
I mean go on back down there and come back up again.
See,  if the people say, shoe-  If I say, shoe shine!
they say,  okay, and they don't say how much it is, I say-  After I finish it,  I say um,  fifty cent.
If-  if they say, how much is it?
I say, thir-  I mean, twenty five cent.
And- Huh?
Uh-huh.
Sometime they give me fift cent for a twenty five cent.
And when they give me fifty cent, they just  plainly give me fifty cent.
Uh-huh.
Let's see.
Uh,  well we watch s-  one program  you know-  It comes on too often.
It was Black America.
And uh,  let's see.
I don't remember no other ones.
See,    uh, if-  like it comes on-  When you see it coming on,  uh,  Al-  That's  the man, and he do the stealing,  then he put-  dude'll put it back.
Or he be replacing it.
Then so he's in the car,  and his boss is in the car.
Then so they got the driver.
They shut the windows so they can talk.
Then so they be going to airport.
Then he tells-  Like if he got to steal this diamond ruby cause somebody stole it,  he got steal it and have it back by the-  by  four hours so he goes there,  disguised himself.
He- he- you know he have to have a woman  to do the  putting on so he can do the stealing.
Then so he steals it,  and then he-  then they get out there.
Then  that-  uh, you know,  just before  time, then they hurry back  to the States and then they put it back.
Then so after that,  uh,  they would-  they would uh, kind of  clean up some.
They would  take-  say,  could I go-  They wouldn't say, could I go out?
cause  Al,  he's the busy one.
And then so he keeps on- He thinks he gonna get out.
They go somewhere with the women.
But he don't get to go out cause  he uh-  his boss stops him.
And tell h-  and this room he live in-  See though,  his boss acting like  the governor  and got him- got Al out of jail.
That's when it first came on.
Then so they-  they kept on  trying to steal, you know- put it back.
And so  he got him out of jail.
And they were the first-  the first time they gave him a place to live.
And they put uh-   Excuse me-  this kind of thing up in the wall  to watch him.
Then so he put his coffee pot  right in front of the  television thing, so they couldn't see him, what he was doing.
He was kissing!
Him and another lady.
Then so they would  just put the ruby back.
And then  he try to sneak off  while the boss is doing something else.
And then so  it's a uh-  He got a agent.
The boss got a agent that watches it.
And he told him,  when will you ever  lose track of me?
That's what he told him the l-  last time.
Uh-huh.
Cause they-  Cause they had done got the ruby, and they had done put it back.
Well they-  Well one day,  they came-  they came on-  they was having trouble.
Some  people were- men,  they had to catch this man.
And he like to steal a lot, so they used the Mod Squad.
It was  it one name Linc  and-  and the other one was name  Pete.
And the girl was name  Peggy Lipton.
That was her real name, but her-  her name was uh-    Julie.
And so  they- they had- Excuse me- They had to catch him.
So they played along with it.
First,  he stole  a lot of  money.
Paper.
Wait, first he stole a lot of paper.
And he made into fake money, you know.
And so  then so he had to steal a bus.
You know, a hippie bus.
So they-  they got a uh, li- little pocket cameras, about like that.
They went around this hippie bus  snapping it.
That's the bus that they were gonna use to-  that's the armored car that they used to take  money from banks,  you know.
M- Not Linc and them.
They was gonna help him  steal it.
You know, just to catch 'em.
Then so  they um-  they came on-  they came onto the place, taking pictures and the  police come up to Linc saying-  I mean, come up to  Pete and uh, the girl  saying uh,  what are y'all doing?
And he said,  y'all teenagers get so that you hang around here and you steal something.
And so  then so he said, we not doing nothing.
Then that man  that-  that uh, they got to catch,  he comes up there and say,  these are my agents.
And then so-  and then Linc,  he's in the car.
I mean he's in the bus  taking inside pictures.
Cause the armored car, it's gonna be just like that.
Then so they makes-  They go back, make the fake money  and then they  get it all stacked up t- ready for to put on the bus.
They steals a bus  and paint it exactly like that.
Then so  they put it uh, in the uh,  bus,  and then   so  well Julie, she rides a motorcycle.
And  uh, let's see.
Pete rides a motorcyle.
Pete-  they ride-  uh Linc, she show-  I mean,  Julie, she shows up first.
She uh,  rides in front of the bus that  them two men in with the gun.
They know, you know,  they the armored car.
Just like the one that they gonna  take from there.
And then so they gonna  um,  uh, keep on p- uh, Julie, she gonna keep on riding til  uh, Pete come out there and run her off the road.
You know, she won't get hurt.
Then so they gonna stop the  armored car, and they gonna get out there and start  helping her and then they gonna start-  get out there and start beating Pete up.
While- while they beating Pete up down the hill,  uh, Linc and the man that they gotta catch,  he-  they come and start-  uh, they got the same truck.
Both of 'em look alike.
They switch  'em.
They- Linc get in one truck, pull up,  and then  they get in the fake truck and pull it up the same place.
Then so  they take off.
And then so  they done done in with Linc.
Then they-  then uh,  they go somewhere and hide.
They take that  fake truck and keep going.
Then so  the police-  then they was uh, washing the paint off the truck.
Off the real truck.
Then so  uh, the man, he said, here, y'all can have something to drink, so  and so they got to talking.
Uh, Linc and them got to talking how was they gonna keep the man from leaving.
Cause they had to catch him,  take him to jail cause he was a tough dude to catch.
So they-  so he kept on talking and everything.
Then so they put- he put something in their  stuff.
Then so it made him dizzy, you know.
You know how you look at something, it'll go-  it'll move, and you can't keep track of it when you're looking at it.
Then so  he did that to all of 'em-  all of a sud-  except Linc.
Then so  he kept on tryna get away  and Julie and-  d- Yeah, that was Julie and Linc.
They was out on the streets staggering trying to-  trying to hitch a ride.
Then so they hitched a ride with some hippies.
Linc, he was on the- his motorcycle.
Motorscooter-  cycle or whichever one.
Then so he-  he p- Uh, so them hippies pulled up  and picked them up.
He-  And then so Julie say, hey,  hey cats.
What's happening?
Hey y'all, let's keep track of the dude.
He's in trouble.
Then so  they keep track of him.
He be going Jack.
Linc, he-  he pulls out there with his motorcycle-  cycle  and pulls up behind him.
Then uh, Linc,  he hollers out and call Pete cause Pete's on the scooter.
Then so  the man, he keep going around the curve-  going around the curve, you know.
So he could try and get away from him,  and then the hippies said,    man, he's not cool enough to get away.
And so,  he got away one time, so they kept on  going, you know- tryna go to say, but then they met up.
Then so he try to turn a sharp curve.
He turned over  his- his- the- u- uh,  real truck that had the real money in it.
It turned over,  then so one hippie stood up and said,  wow, what a crazy trip.
And he was talking it- that trip he did!
It turned over.
Then that was the end.
And the-  Wait.
And they let him borrow-  th- at the first beginning, they let the-  the boss had let them borrow their car,  and his car got smashed up.
And then so,  then so the boss said, we'll take my car home.
Then so  Linc he said, uh,  well,  it's a long story, boss.
And then so he start telling him about his-  about the car.
Then so  just kept on- Then he said, what?
And then he said,  I've a finish.
Then so he had to get a new car.
Excuse me.
Like,  they got a bunch of  colored  ch- uh, girls  ages nineteen to twenty five.
They ask 'em what do they do-  No, they don't ask 'em no questions.
They just  see what's the- where they beauty mark is.
And the prettiest- Like, they have  Mrs.
New York,  Miss  Washington, DC, Miss  North Carolina,  Miss Richmond.
They put 'em all together.
Then they put 'em in bathing suits.
Put 'em in-  Then they'll put 'em in pants.
They put 'em in bathing suits and pants.
Then  if it don't work out the first time, they do it again.
And then they have special people on there that sing.
They had The Temptations on there  to sing  Miss Black America, they sung that.
And then so  then they have Stevie Wonders,  he just sing something.
And then so  he-  uh, he'll, Stevie Wonders, he'll go around and he'll-  he'll try to look but he can't see.
He's blind.
But I think he can see.
And so, they keep on then  so  they vote.
A- The one that gets the vote- morest votes,  they call- they call  her name last.
And they'll say it louder and louder.
And then they call her name last, and  she'll be the winner.
And then so  lady she comes and put the crown on her.
And s-  put the robe on her and sit her down in the chair.
And then so  they just end the song wi- by singing-  end the whole thing by singing.
Yes sir.
A German Shepherd.
See, she sometime-  Like if you come in the house,  she'll run to the door right fast.
She- you know,  if anybody she don't know comes to the door,  she'll run to the door.
She don't try to come, but we mostly hold her back from going to s-  to the door.
See if you point your hand out,  she'll try- try her best to bite it.
And if you don't,  well then,  you alright.
Friends for a little while, but if you  come in there  running and she'll jump on you just as quick.
Then so  uh,  it's these children-  the way you can tell when she-  when somebody picked at her,  she'll um-  when you go in the store and leaves her outside,  somebody uh-  some children will mess with her-  and you see some children  and when you take the dog-   Excuse me.
Huh?
Uh-huh.
And uh, when you-  when you untie the dog, he'll try to get to the children.
Our dog would, that's how you know that  somebody's been bothering.
And we walks her three times a day.
Like in the morning when I get up,  before I go to work, I-  I might walk her but I don't do it.
I go to work at seven.
Then when I come home,  I may walk her.
Or in-  I c-  And I c- No, see,  in the morning  sometimes  I goes  shining shoes at seven in the morning sometime.
But most of the time now I go  to work at the store at seven  and come back at four.
And then after that I go shoe shining.
Uh, RD-WORK-7.
Huh?
Uh, straighten the shelves up and  bag for it.
That's every day.
I go to  RD-SCHOOL-2.
I don't know cause I'm'a get a transfer there.
Mm-  Uh-huh.
I'm going there this year.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Huh?
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Sixth, seventh, eighth.
Well first- Oh.
We  take and go on down to the-  to the bus stops,  and if your bus come up, you get on it, get in the little-  It's a brown little piece of paper about like that.
and then we go-  then  it's got  a school ticket  is used for a bus ticket.
And it- and uh, it's got a serial number on it.
Like it's got  one,  two,  three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
I think it'll have eight numbers.
Well then  somebody else could use your ticket.
But just don't show the man your tickets.
You put it in-  Some people they trick.
Like, the tickets is like this here.
It's that big.
They'll tear it in half,  put one part in there.
And then the next day put the other.
You know why because they sell 'em-  sell 'em and get fifteen cent off of 'em.
They cost ten cent a piece  for a whole- for one book.
The first- there's ten of 'em in there.
That's a dollar.
And get twenty of 'em for two dollars.
History,  uh,  and some other- Science.
We have eight subjects  including Lunch.
Uh-huh!
I can't wait til the end.
W- Yeah  cause we talked a lot.
See,  we were-  everybody come in the class.
We just keep on talking.
She'd wait for a few minutes.
She say,  everyday y'all come in here, y'all has to talk talk talk.
Then so, whenever there's a different-  Like there's a man on,  he'll talk jivey stuff with us,  just to keep us quiet.
Or he'll bring his TV or something.
We don't like to look at TV.
We like to study.
But he come  sh- tryna, uh, you know,  tell us about TV.
Then so The science teacher!
She lets us cheat.
She may see but she won't say nothing.
Uh-huh.
Oh yes.
It was a he.
And his name was Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
Wouldn't- When I don't-  when I don't bring my work in  he'll say, see me after school.
Then he'll just sit there.
I'll say, Mr.
RD-NAME-1, what you wanted me to see you about?
He just keep telling me, see me after school until four o'clock.
Just keep on telling  me that.
After-  after I keep asking it.
Then so  at four o'clock, then I leave.
If I don't bring it now he'll do the same thing.
And if you talk too much,  and have a card about the same size as this.
Put your name down, what you were- what you were doing,  give you some hours  after school.
Ooh, lots of times.
See they-  Like if they-  they show up in the class.
You know, just  get the slip c-  uh, skip class, they- they uh, let the teacher see 'em and  write 'em down, then they say, can I go the bathroom?
They'll go to store and just live it up for that fifty five minutes.
Wait, I don't think it's no- I think it's-  twenty or thirty minutes.
Then so  they just  live it up  off they thirty cent.
Cause they probably-  most of 'em get free lunch.
Then so  oh I played a lot.
Then so  they-  theys live it up until uh,  timers over- til the bell ring- tell they hear the bell ring  cause there's a big Safeway right across the street.
Then one day I brought  a box of  chewing gum.
I was gonna sell it.
Then so  cause I could-  so I could pay on the record player radio  I'm buying now.
I'm still trying to buy it.
Then so  they would stay there.
Then they go to their next class.
And if they in the next class,  and they wasn't in-  and they- and they-  and they wasn't in the other class, well then  they won't-  they won't get a check.
The sneakiest one I ever done,  I  duck my uh, eighth period.
That was  um,  Math.
I duck that one and go home.
No I don't hang around with any- Oh I just made up those names.
I know James.
RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2  and RD-NAME-2.
Those are the only three.
Huh?
What d-  No see, if one go, the others'll go.
Like you know,  I spent few days trying to  find out how much it- do it take to make a song.
That's what we're gonna do.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yes sir.
Oh, no.
I ain't got my pad.
I got it on a pad.
And I forgot- Huh?
Let's see.
I think it's slow drag.
Yeah, that's the name of it.
Slow drag.
Huh?
Well I like   cause you can get along with them better.
Cause the children on our block,  man, you sposta help out for your neighbors,  they fight the neighbors.
Like if we lived on the whole street man-  you lived on half and we lived on half.
Everytime you come up on our half,  they would-  they would uh, take your money or something.
I don't like that stuff.
No, my mama she knows.
Not my mama, but my sister, she knows a foreign language.
She know pig latin.
F-  Sixteen.
Yes sir.
Yes.
I got RD-NAME-2.
.
Oh no no no no.
Uh-huh.
Huh?
Oh yeah, I try to make friends.
Cause when- when we first moved in,  there was a boy, he come up there that- His name was RD-NAME-2.
He was the first one we met on the block.
Cause didn't nobody hardly stay home then.
And I wish they didn't stay home  now  cause they would all go on trips.
Cause they'll threaten you a lot if you don't  give 'em what you want.
Even if you don't act bad around there,  if you do act bad, they won't bother you.
If they fight you  one time,  and you don't fight 'em back, they- you'll look for fight.
They'll think  you easy to push over.
Singer.
Just,  you know,  write your records and go down,  pay the money  for them to record it.
Let's see.
Let's see.
What was the best?
Oh yeah, drum set.
And that's my favorite.
Drums.
A real one this time.
The last one, the other one stood like that.
And my mama, she don't like the noise.
But one night,  we was-  we was going the drums.
She was in there helping us.
And that was on-  That was on that same Christmas  w- I-  I got up early.
Then so she-  she came-  she start helping us make noise.
Then my father, they got to dancing.
So my father, he do-  he-  you know I just see him dance like this then.
Like that and  put his feet forward and bring it back like that.
Keep on.
But one night, he showed off Jack.
He was fixing to go to  Korea.
I-  he shocking me.
I didn't know he could dance so good.