When I was ten?
Let's see .
Uh, there was a number of games  I used to play.
Well, I-  played  you know, sports and I was in- athletic in class,  played baseball.
And uh  made these little  skate trucks .
Nail it, you know take a skate and nail it on a two by four and  the  box and  ride around the neighborhood,  playing Cowboys.
I was still playing that at that age.
What?
No, it just- just a bunch of guys get together and- and choose sides and  then h-  the-  some be the good guys and the bad guys, you kn- they get away, and we go after 'em.
Uh- never came to a conclusion though.
Oh, we would play  uh- like  tag or something,  except somewhat on the vicious side, cause it wasn't tagging, it was hitting.
And- well  mm, we'd get a- a bunch of us would get together, and then  somebody be-  would be it.
Everybody'd run, if-  the one who got caught  would get hit,  maybe  three or four times on the shoulder somewhere.
And  if you could hit pretty hard  you would never be it.
And Oh.
Sometime we'd  flip a coin or something or  or just- e- everybody would come out and say well,  not it, not it, you know, or something like that.
Or then, yeah, the few  who wanted to be it - Yes.
Uh,  any rhymes?
No, never use any rhymes.
Well, not when I was ten years old.
Y- Yes, when I was  you know.
real young.
Let's see if I can remember any of 'em.
Well I-  actually,  those were girl's games using the  using- using the rhymes and stuff.
Oh they'd use 'em  jumping rope  mostly.
Well, uh, I mean,  you be playing around the girls.
I-  I mean I could learn 'em,  but uh  you know every- everyone didn't  try to learn 'em.
But I'd hear 'em playing, and you know, I could knew what it was all about, but  I never played it.
Well  it- it- we  played other games with chasing, yeah.
We'd chasing girls.
You know.
Well it was just- well just  playing  for fun and  anything you want to add to it.
Well, no, not-  not when I was ten.
Uh  I never was very good at baseball,  but   I didn't-  I-  matter fact, I didn't even- p- s- p- start- you know, and playing sports real regular til I was about  fourteen, fifteen years old.
And I started playing football.
I was  real good at that  and basketball.
Baseball is  just wasn't becoming.
No.
Well, we had a,  always had a sandlot team  around where I lived.
I played in school, t- too.
I played in high school.
Well yes, we had a organized  uh league.
Uh- yes, it- yes we had ref- we had officials, coaches  from the  Boy's Club.
See,  where I lived,  in that particular section, we didn't have a Boy's Club out there.
We formed our own team, and we  was playing out of  you know, number thirteen because  n-  I think they had  two teams up there.
They had their, their regular team, then they- we would  plan  for them too, you know.
And they furnished us our uniforms and stuff Yeah because see, this was too far to go.
I mean uh- e- even to practice, all the way up  northwest.
See I- see I lived in the northeast section,  far northeast.
Deanwood.
And I  played basketball with Recreation Center.
They had a organized you know, recreation team w- at the  school.
Well  I remember one particular football game.
The score wasn't hardly close though.
We was- we were playing a team in Virginia.
They beat us something like  forty nine to six.
Eh, but ah- the score being, you know,  we played a  pretty tight  um  The league was, you know, usually,  well balanced and  all of the games were pretty tough.
I played tackle.
I played center when I was playing basketball.
Well I wasn't the tallest one.
I could-  I had pretty good jumping ability.
I could jump pretty good.
I watch it now.
Yes.
Well I go for mostly  the ad-  adventure  you know, action stories.
I don't like those love- love things.
And I like the comedy shows.
I like this  Get Smart and that uh  Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In, I watch that.
And I watch, you know, mostly m- majority of the movies, you- you know.
If they have  the adventure stories on there.
And a few other things I like, that is uh  anything dealing with  with animals you know, like that Zoo Parade?
Uh, it's not Zoo Parade anymore.
What is it?
Animal- Wild Kingdom.
I watch that and when that Walt Disney have a- have his  things on there, I watch some of them.
You know, with wildlife and things.
And then-  and that American Sportsman I watch that, you know.
And,  and most- all sports- sp- sports events I watch on TV.
Well yes, there's one in particular when he-  he was-  this Catchman KAOS had him trapped on the island and  and may- he had a gun on him and,  and he was telling him, say,  you better put that gun away cause we got the whole-  we got  admiral - I forgot the admiral's name, what he called, but in the whole seventh fleet!
Surrounded!
He goes, oh, likely story.
would you believe the sixth fleet?
what about the fifth?
Then  it came all the way down to, what about Tarzan and four of his apes?
I mean- .
Well, I forget now, just  uh-  it's been so many of 'em.
I mean I can't even get 'em, you know,  get 'em organized, but  I think that was pretty funny.
Uh, it's hard to think back, you know.
There's  nothing been recently and-  recently they haven't had any good ones on.
Well I've seen a couple of movies that I- like.
Especially those new ones with- with uh  that Clint Eastwood's been making, you know, there's like The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly  and The Fist Full of Dollars.
And- Well, did you see A Fist Full of Dollars?
Y- mean you haven't seen any of those?
You gotta see them.
Yeah.
Yes, they're real good.
Well,  Clint Eastwood, he plays a,  a bounty hunter and  he's real fast, and then  he  hunting the- hunting outlaws for their uh  you know, for the bounty.
And  uh, this picture is-  they have Eli Wallach in there.
He-   he's- he's just about the same thing, but he's-  he's b- he's the Bad in the-  because he-  cause he's a killer, a thief,  and everything.
I mean, he would do anything for mo-  for money,  but Clint Eastwood, he usually stick to just  you know  for outlaws but-  but Eli Wallach, he would  he'd kill you for, you know, robbing, everything.
And there were-  well, Clint E- uh, when the picture first comes on, you- I mean, I don't know if you want me to elaborate on it- I can if you want.
Well the story opens where  these men are after Eli Wallach.
These- the- this- about three or four bounty hunters are after him, for the reward.
And they-  they cap- they sh- shoot his horse from under him  you know, they had their guns on 'em, they g- getting ready to kill him.
Then Clint Eastwood comes up, and  he  kills them.
And he-  and Eli Wallach thinks that  he's gonna let him go, but he-  he ties him up and takes him in, turn him in for the reward.
So just before they get ready to hang him  you know, they- they are gonna hang him.
They've-  they've tried and convicted him, you know, that they're gonna hang him.
And Clint East- Clint Eastwood shoots him down-  shoots the rope  and, you know, rides past him, and picks him up.
And run- g- ,gets him out of town  and you know, split the reward with him.
Then  take it- take him to another town and turn him again.
And they had a thing going there for awhile, but you know, the-  the reward for- for Eli Wallach never-  it- it never- never went over  say about  two or three thousand dollars,  and so he-  he got tired of it.
And he-  he just, you know, s- he stopped,  Clint Eastwood, you know, just let him go about it.
He took all the money the last time.
And let him- put him out on a desert,  and made him walk  um some fifty some odd miles across the desert.
No horse or anything.
So  uh  so then he- he wants revenge on Clint Eastwood.
He-  he goes- goes into town and steals a-   steals a gun, or takes a gun from a guy,  and then robs him on the bo- .
And  he goes looking for Clint Eastwood and finally he catches up with him.
And he  and- Clint Eastwood- and- he in the act of  shooting somebody else down where he'd- who he'd turn in for a reward, so  the um  so Eli Wallach g- gets him.
Was it-  well, no.
No, it's b- b- before that.
He found him.
He ha- uh Clint-  Eli Wallach hired- hired three- thee other guys to go with him to- and   Clint Eastwood was in this hotel room,  and they went up there after him, and  he sent the three guys to the door.
He goes through the window,  and the guys who break through the door,  Clint Eastwood shoots them down.
But  and  Eli Wallach is behind him though, and he gets him and-  and- and makes him tie a rope across the beam in the ceiling, and make him get up on a chair.
And he  put the rope around his neck- made him put the rope around his neck.
And he's gonna kick the chair from under him,  by that time, you know,  with-  this was during the Civil War,  and- and they raided the  uh, I think the Confederates raided the town,  and blew up the hotel!
And it happened to break the beam- I know- I don't know how he got a- he got a- he got away though, man.
By the time  Eli Wallach  had you know, re-regained conscious,  he- uh, Clint Eastwood is gone,  so he still tr- he was still trailing him, and he finally caught up with him again, you know, when he had  he had turned another guy in for the reward.
And  he wouldn't let him shoot the rope, he let this guy hang.
And  so he took him right- took his-  made him walk across the desert.
He took, you know, m- and he was riding the horse with all-   he's sitting on the horse with a umbrella, canteens full of water, making him walk across the desert.
And, but and so he was I guess he was out-  he was just about  done for.
And  he was gonna- gonna shoot him, and he happened to see this wagon  coming  r- coming across the desert  the ho- you know, run away horses,  and he went and stopped it.
And these fellas man they,  they were  uh, there's was, uh  they were Union Army, I think it was.
But they,  this one guy was  almost near death.
He- he had stole some money,  and had buried it  somewhere, and he  went and  Eli Wallach was trying to get him to tell where the money was,  and he went to g- to his horse to get the water.
By the time he got back,  uh, Clint Eastwood had gone up there, and- and the guy had told him where the money was.
And the guy had died!
So then Eli Wallach changed all together.
He was trying to say he didn't want him to die, he was tryna save his life.
So  so he takes him to this- to this Mission  where his brother was a- his brother was a priest there.
And  well his b- at the time, his brother wasn't there, so he got  this uh, you know the- the substitute priest to-  to try to save him, you know.
And he was in there- thought he was gonna die and everything.
He's praying to-    praying to Mary, and he  crossing hisself and everything, hoping, hoping he wouldn't die .
So, he- he st- you know he-  he, I guess he wasn't convinced because he went in there and t- and started  praying to him  you know, preaching to him.
Telling him how good he was, and  how much money he was going to send his mother.
All he had to do was tell him what the- what the fella told him, and tell him where the gold was.
And calling him brother, you know, telling him he'd take care of him,  you know, and everything.
And Clint Eastwood spit in his face.
But he did- but he didn't die.
They  you know,  but  they came back, you know.
He- his brother came back, and his brother wanted him to leave because his brother knew he wasn't any good.
And he told him that his-  his parents had just died, and he didn't even go to the funeral.
And   he-  hi- his brother slapped him cause he said something that- to him, he didn't like, but  he beat him up- he beat his brother up, and his brother's a priest, and  and he-  he gets on the wagon   and tells uh  to Clint Eastwood, yes, my brother loves me b-  he- he- didn't want me to leave.
And  Uh  so they- they going down the road.
You know, they looking for the gold- they was going together.
They had joined up together.
And so they see this uh  these soldiers coming  and then, you know, it was time of the war,  you know.
And they thought they was going to be taken prisoners as spies  because they had-  they had uniforms on they had these uh Yankee uniforms on.
No, It was Confederate uniforms, they had on.
And they saw these soldiers coming, you know, they were all dirty and everything, and the-  with the dust and everything, so they thought they were Confederate soldiers, too, so they were just waving at 'em, see  and, and you know, calling-  calling the Union Army all kinds of names and  everything else, but that's what Eli Wallach was doing.
He was calling them all kinds of names,  and by time the-  the colonel came up,  and started brushing his  shoulders off and saw the blue on his uniform,   next thing you knew, they was in a prison camp.
And so And  where the Ugly- where the Ugly uh,  the Ugly comes in  was uh  this  fella  Lee Van Cleef,  he- he was  looking- he- he knew about the gold all the time.
He- he was, you know, it  showed flashes of him at- at all but the beginning of the movie.
But he was out- he was looking for this fella  you know, who knew-  who knew where the gold was.
But he didn't know he had died, but when they got there,  I don't know, he learned somehow that-  that uh  Eli Wallach and Clint Eastwood  knew- knew where it was.
So he got his-  his lieutenant to-  to work-  work Eli Wallach over.
You know- and-  and make him tell where it was.
So he told his part, he knew it was in a  cemetery or something.
Yeah, but and  But Clint Eastwood would- wouldn't tell.
Well, I left out a part, too, but-  because they w-  they- they were going to- they were going after it,  and they came upon this- this battle, at this little bridge.
It was, you know the  Confederate soldiers on one side, and the Union Army on the other.
So  they couldn't get- the- only way they could get to the cemetery was across the bridge.
And   they couldn't get across it because they were battling over the bridge,  so they decided to go   blow the bridge up.
So  uh  while they were down there  putting-  or wiring the dynamite to the bridge,  they were uh- Eli Wallach was afraid that-  that-  that  Clint Eastwood might get killed, and  neither one- neither one of 'em would have the gold, so they-  they agreed to tell each other their part of the secret.
See,  Eli Wallach knew- knew it- knew what cemetery it was, but he didn't know the grave.
But Clint Eastwood didn't know-  didn't know the cemetery, but he knew the-  the grave  that it was buried in.
And so they agreed  to tell him so  he tell him it was the Sand Hill Cemetery,  but Clint Eastwood told him it-  that the grave was uh  uh, you know, uh  I've forgotten the name that was on the grave, but- but that wasn't really what it was.
That  was a grave next to it.
He told him the  wrong grave.
There was a grave was- was-  marked unknown  where  actually where the money was.
But they-  they blew the bridge up  and after that, that was when they were captured that time.
So  he  uh, when Eli Wallach-  when he told-  told  uh  Lee Van Cleef, you know, where the-  his part of it,  he- he-  and he- he's gonna send them on to another prison camp, but he managed to escape.
And he  made f- well he-  he let-  he let uh Clint Eastwood go.
He figured he would go to it.
No, no, they joined up!
He joined up, he  uh, with  with Lee Van Cleef  and he was gon- he was gonna lead him to it if he let him live.
So th- they  you know, was going tow- going there  with.
And  so finally  .
I'm getting tired of talking about it.
Well they came about it- They were  on their way there, and they  ca- came up on a  up on this fella who was dying,  so  Clint Eastwood stayed to  help the guy,  help the fella who was dying.
And while Eli Wallach took off  after the gold,  and Eli, he made it to the c- he made it to the cemetery and was started digging.
And-  but he was digging in the wrong graves though.
E- uh, Clint Eastwood came up  and threw him a shovel,    and made him- made him dig-  i- made him dig the money up, and  so then  Lee Van Cleef shows up  with another shovel,   and he wants to make Clint Eastwood dig, too.
But he told  Clee-  so by that time, he had finished digging, open the grave up, and saw it was empty.
And  then that w- made a standoff there because he told him if he kill him  that he w- he'd never know where the gold was.
That's the only way he could-  he w- he would tell him, you know, he- he'd- he gonna write on the bottom of a rock  and put a  in all of 'em,  move off and the-  the one who live,  you know, they gonna draw and shoot,  and the one who live,  would-  would get the gold.
But-  but not uh so then, they  they move on off and everything.
So they drew and  Lee, uh  Clint Eastwood shot Lee Van Cleef,  but w-  Eli Wallach,  his gun was empty!
He-   Clint Eastwood had unloaded his gun the night before!
And he didn't know what to do then.
He was standing there  looking like a fool.
With an empty gun,  so he  finally makes-  he got mad because  uh  Clint Eastwood had told him a lie about  where the gold was and everything.
Then he made him dig again in the- in the right grave,  and he come up with the money.
And he was looking- counting 'em- he was -  he was throwing the money up and everything,  having himself a good time.
And  happened to look up  and Clint Eastwood had a rope,  and then-  with th- the hangman's noose on it.
And  made him put it around his neck again, and  this- this time he stood up on one of these grave markers,  and it  you know, it was rotten wood and everything and  if he had- if he had slipped off of it, he would have hung hisself.
So he, he left him his half of the gold, uh  and  he rode off And left tied his hands behind him, with the rope around his neck, and he was up on this grave marker,    and he left his half of the gold there though.
He rode off.
He thought he was gonna leave him there.
He was scared,  but-  but  Clint Eastwood got   I know it was good-  good hundred and fifty yards away,  and he turned back   and shot the rope.
And th- that- that's how the picture ended.
I don't want to use some of the language that he used but  what he called him, but he- I mean it was pretty good though.
Uh  No I never had a pet.
I was-  uh one thing, uh  I guess I  couldn't afford a dog.
I always wanted a dog.
I used to bring 'em home  a couple times.
My father always made me get rid of them.
Well, yes, they eat too much and  I mean I had  six sisters and a brother, so we- they couldn't afford to feed a dog.
And my father was the only one working.
Well  nothing really.
Only- only what I had to.
I would take a few things, you know, but I took a  uh  took Electricity for,  and so when I  got  tired of that,  took printing for awhile,  and  got tired of that.
But one of the  main reasons was  I just wasn't too interested in school, and    excuse me.
And then uh I would-  maybe I'd go  during the Fall  til   til after football season was over, and I'd drop out when  when the weather start getting warm  and go back to where I stayed.
I  think I stayed in high school for about    five- six years.
Well  I imagine they're the same as they-  they are now.
We- we had-  we had Spelling,  Handwriting,  Arithmetic,  Reading and History.
Then we had a time for  everybody sh-  their-  telling about your experiences, uh  you know.
Maybe telling a few fu- little funny stories and things.
And  and  and Singing.
Well,     they did a number of things.
All depends on the-  on this-  on the  child or you know  or the friends that you had.
I mean some of 'em would go  straight home.
I wasn't one of them.
What we would- we- well, we had a lot of wooded areas out there.
We'd  go playing in the woods or somewhere.
If it was warm enough, you know, we'd  go swimming in the- at the little creek,  you know, out there we'd-  I'd go swimming.
I was hanging with a-  with a bunch of fellas that  weren't too nice.
And they go  in somebody's  pear tree or apple tree or something .
Yes.
I'm sure they do.
No,  I  never had a teacher that hollered a lot.
Mm, well I- I've had a  couple of real good- good ones.
But  remember- remembering their names or something, I know one was when I was in junior high.
Her name was Mrs.
Wells.
And she was  real good.
I mean she-  she seemed to  take a interest in- in boys, you know, and she-  she didn't- she knew  this-  what made 'em tick I guess.
I mean if-  I mean, yeah, I had a lot of respect for her  cause she, you know, if you-  you were in trouble and needed some help or something, she would,  uh, you know,  help you out of it.
Or if you got out of line, she'd just   ball up her fist and hit you in the chest.
I mean a- where some of the teachers,  you know, if-  if they hit somebody,  some of those guys, they w-  maybe hit 'em back.
But no one would hit her back  cause everyone liked her.
Cause, you know, she'd  come  right down to you know, she'd meet you on your terms.
And- and they had too much respect for her to hit her back.
Well, no.
I never have  cause I was-  I wasn't a type of person who made trouble in- in  you know, I guess I got along with the teach-  I got along with the teachers pretty good.
I never made, you know,  made any disturbances or anything.
Well yes, I was- I've been in those classes.
No, I-   I laughed along with 'em, but  Well they would do a number of things.
They would-  this one teacher  he was-  well they-  they  would turn to you.
They said he was shell-shocked, and he couldn't stand any loud noises or something, or  sometime  uh this-  this one sh- they would get in there, and  he would be concentrating on something and take his fingernail and scrape across the blackboard and make that noise.
And he'd jump up and,  well he had hands about- about    twice the size of mine ,  and he- if he hit you across the head, you could feel it.
But  uh he-  he would j- just go around and hit,  you know, s-  smacking everybody.
Well,  just the usual  things, you know like when the teacher turn their back and have  eraser fights or something or    s-  pulling chairs from underneath from somebody when they getting ready to sit down.
It's  things like that.
Well I had- I had a pretty hard time.
I knew when I w-  at f-  first, when I first went to junior high,  well  because I was in a class with a  lot of  older-  older fellas, you know, I  think  there's only about  two or three of us  were in, you know, were in our right grade.
Rest of these fellas, they were    sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years old.
I mean, in the seventh grade, and that's- that's no place for a- you know  uh  k- anybody else, and they  you know, they would-  they  you know, pick on you.
Heck, I had a lot of trouble with have- have  t- guys telling me to bring money to school and all that kind  all that stuff, yes.
And see I,  I mean I was-  I was almost as large as they were  but I sure- I've  you know, I   I No, I  could- I couldn't.
They were too much older and you know,  I guess they knew more than I did.
But uh I guess- Yes, uh  I mean, it was-  it got- it- it got so bad that I couldn't hardly  you know, concentrate on school work  uh  in a class like that.
But finally, I f- you know, complained and-  about it so much, and then, you know, had my parents come up to school.
They finally, you know  got me out of  there.
Yeah, they moved me in a, you know, in another cla- when I  went to the eighth grade, they-  you know I was in a better class.
Eh,  but I mean, then they had a little-  even when I was in this class, they had this little-  the teacher- I mean the teacher let 'em get away with this.
You know, anyone,  you know, you might  t- he say, everybody be quiet, you know, and do your work- work.
But he may asked a question, he may asked for a pencil or something, but everybody-  any- anyone who  caught talking, then would whole class jump up and-  and- and do him in.
I mean  And that was pretty rough.
I mean cause you-  uh, it may be unconscious.
You may be concentrating on something, maybe, might even-  I know a  guy.
He- he just  saying something to hisself, and uh  and that was just a cue, and everybody jumped on him and  you know, start hitting on him.
I think his parents tried to sue .
Mm.
Well yes,  mostly I  well    let me see.
I had two different bunches I hung with.
The ones in school, and the ones that- ones, you know, where I lived.
Well,  I didn't like  where I was living.
I didn't  care much for  hanging with the fellas where I lived  because  they were  like I said, they were pretty rough.
Real rough bunch.
I mean they-  they would steal and  you know, get in all sorts of trouble.
And my parents was telling me, you know,  I was always afraid of going to jail,  you know,  g- getting in trouble  and everything well  I  uh so uh  at- at first, I- you know, I used to be with the fellas  in- in the school, you know, with-  who's  pretty  n- nice guys in school I used to hang with.
But  I don't know.
I just felt-  I didn't feel right  around them, most of the time, because  you know they had a  lot of nice things.
You know, their parents had homes, and  they had, maybe had  bicycles and everything.
I didn't have this.
And, I didn't have the clothes that some of them had,  and I didn't  you know, I felt-  I felt ashamed to be around them, so  finally I just drifted off from 'em and  took up with these  ones who were, you know, around where I lived.
Yes,  we had them.
Most- Yeah, I know  what made him the leader.
He could beat everybody up.
Uh, and he,  well, and- and he hadn't  uh  he was a kid that had the roughest life.
And I guess he- he just grew up faster than the rest of 'em, and  I think that was the main thing.
That, and maybe he could  beat anybody because  I could beat him, but I could s- I was still afraid of him  because you know, I wasn't th-  I didn't have  uh, I wasn't as treacherous as he was, I guess, you know, but I could  I could beat him  most of the time.
You know, we'd be playing  uh  you know,  playing,  wrestling and everything.
I could- I could do him in but    but I, one thing, I was afraid of him cause  he did have about four of five older brothers, too.
Eh- Well, he would-  he would just say, come on and-  and let's  go do this.
Or someone, said  and I don't want to go, or something like that, well he said,  come on.
And he said he didn't want to go again, well he'd maybe instigate a fight between you and someone el- somebody else, so  or maybe you know,  t- uh-  you know, well,  they start calling you  names  di- you know, different names, saying, aw, you chicken, and everything and  then they finally  i-  you'd finally end up with all the rest of the other guys against you.
Only profanity.
Yes, uh no, uh wasn't any white.
Yes, he could get into it.
He- Well most of the time, you'd find one,  some- someone,  well when I- like I did.
I-  when I moved into it,  I just happened to be sitting on the porch and  this one boy, he was uh very  talkative.
He's come down and start  telling me  all about the things that he w- he could do and  what he had done and all th-  you know, and everything.
Um  And then you know, I guess,  he drew another one, and  just sitting there talking, and  they may have asked me to go- go some place with 'em.
Let's  you know, maybe go  or come on, play a game or something.
You play, and then we just  you know,  just-  just casual like.
Something.
I see 'em  maybe once in awhile.
Mm?
Yes, much different.
But some of those, I mean, n-not  all of 'em there.
Some of 'em,  they-  they're doing  fine, some of 'em.
Majority of 'em in jail though.
But some of 'em came out all right, you know.
They're doing fine.
Yes, I would.
I-  i- just like you said,  I'd do everything different.
Mm,  well,  no, I  m- not- not professionally, you know.
I didn't have any- m- had any- have any definite plans of what I  was gonna do.
But  what I  would have done would-  I would have stayed in school.
I would have graduated.
I think I would have gone to college because  well I was sort of lazy.
I could have gone, too, if I had  uh  if I had kept playing sports.
But I-  I would-  I don't know.
I'd play-  play for awhile and then I'd get tired.
I hated- I hated to practice.
That's what-  and th- and then other interests- I had other interests, you know, well  just like I said, when I came home and  fellas, people I was hanging with, well  they were-  they were, you know.
It was a big thing to have a girlfriend or have two or three girlfriends or something and  I think that's what messed me up.
I-  I finally had to get married.
When I was-  I got married when I was seventeen see.
So  that's what stopped me.
I knew  it-  I realize now that it wasn't such a big thing.
I mean  that's-  that's- that's my whole draw back right there.
Well     I don't want to say it cause-   Well it,  I don't know.
I couldn't think of  just what I would do.
I mean, some people would day dream a lot  about what they would do if they had all the money they could use,  and think of all s- sorts of fantastic things.
But I wouldn't even tell you  what I- what I thought  Yes.
Well  when I was a child, we'd-  eh, the usual.
Uh, well the tree and the toys.
We'd play with toys, and what- then most of the time, we'd  uh  go to church, and  after that, we'd visit you know  family, and that would be a-  that'd be a whole Christmas holiday thing with the family I have.
Yeah.
I mean, there- Yes, just about all of 'em  out here.
Yes, both sides.
And- and have to- you know, have to-  well when I  was able to go by myself, a bunch of us  fellas would get together maybe.
Go to a movie, or  go to  a  dance or party or something.
Well, I can't really  remember.
The- Um, tell you that's too far out of my realm.
That's the- that I don't have.
Yes, I've been in situations like those before.
Yes,  quite a few times.
Well, I didn't get killed.
But I can  well,  well one time we were  you want me to tell you about what or how I felt or what happened where I was in that situation?
Well I- I know one time we were at this little dance,  a fellow they  had a fight,  and the-  the-  um  the owner of the place,  you know, he called the police, and they came.
And they wa- was making everybody leave.
This one  guy was  standing behind me,  reached over and threw a Coke-a-Cola bottle  and hit the policeman in the back of the head.
And he-  he turned around and drew his gun and cocked it.
It was right in my face.
He ducked down behind me, and I thought surely he was going to shoot.
A- a-  h-   I don't know.
Aw, I probably said, god I didn't do it.
Don't shoot me!
No, he didn't shoot.
And- and another time,  a- almost the same incident.
Well  I think we were up at  this place up at Fort Dupont,  and they had a  little minor riot at the end.
Was po- police was coming in.
They- they was-  you know.
Someone  turned the scout car over.
And uh  we were running through the woods, and a  thing just shot.
seemed like I could hear it coming past my ear and, you know and I f-  fell down,  and I rolled in this ditch, an- an- and I went up this little gully  somewhere.
I got out of that.
But I thought sure he was gonna shoot again.
If he had shot again, I know he would have gotten.
But but- Well I say, s-  uh- e-  don't- try to -try to stay out of those  kind of situations where you- something might happen, but- but if you- I mean,  when- if it's there,  I mean there's nothing you can do about it.
After you come out of it, you say- just say, whew!
I sure was lucky.
But kind of sh-  kind of shakes you up and make you think for awhile.
That- I think that changes you.
You don't want to  be, you know, into that.
I know- I know right now I'm careful about going  lot of places where,  you know, anything like that might break out.