Well usually I play football, baseball, sometimes soccer,  dodgeball,  um,  and uh, other kinds of games  really.
Um,  sports that  uh,  um,  require a lot of  uh, movement and t- r- really taxing sports.
In the neighborhood, we just  have just  a few kids playing around.
And at school, we have a football team,  and it's organized and we play di- other schools.
Yes.
Yes sir.
Right end.
It depends upon whether we're playing on grass or in the street.
Well,  we-  sometimes there's a circle  and there's some people in the center,  and you try to get the people out.
And if they catch the ball, they're not out.
And then they get back into the circle if they get  out and last person is  the winner, I guess.
Well,  to begin with,  you have a ball.
You know, a round ball.
And    you know how to throw the ball?
So    you might have two people  standing at  opposites  positions  uh, straight in front of each other and a few people in the center of these people.
And one of the person on the side of these people  take a ball  and throws it and tries to hit one of the persons in the middle and get them out.
And then  the person that hits  the person in the middle gets to go into the middle and that person goes  and takes his turn in throwing the ball and trying to get someone out.
Yes.
Tag.
Well usually there's someone  that's  considered as it and this person tries to  tag or sort of like hit  the person.
And then  this person is considered it.
And it goes on  and people try  and the it  tries to get-  tag the people and it goes on like that.
Yes.
Well usually you try a little rhyme like,  um, Mickey Mouse built a house.
How many bricks did he use?
And then the person that  foot  you-  it lands on, he says,  how many bricks did he use?
And you count around the feet,  and then the person that it lands on is out.
And then it goes around different rhymes and things until the last person.
And the last person that's in is it.
Uh,  not at the moment.
Oh.
One potato, two potato, three potato, more,  five potato, six potato, seven potato, or.
I don't really know what it is but- Yeah.
Oh, engine engine number nine, speeding down Chicago line.
If-  if you want your money back-  Uh-   Yeah.
I don't know that one.
Hide and Go Seek.
Well,  usually you use one of the rhymes,  and then  the person that's last in is the person is the person that has to find  uh,  the other people.
So  this person,  there's a designated base,  and  this person  hides his  eyes,  and the other per-  people go hide.
And he counts to a-  a number that they all decide on,  and  then after that number  he usually says a rhyme or something  and then  goes  um,    and finds these people.
And sometimes you play the last person that's caught is it  and sometimes you play that the first person  that's caught is it.
Bottle caps?
Uh, I remember a game where I used to play that you  took a bottle clap-  cap and you tried to flip  it over  to the  top side.
No.
When I find time.
Yeah.
Let's see.
I guess it would be Star Trek.
Uh, let's see.
Once, the Klingons    uh,  declared war on  the  Enterprise, that's the name of the ship.
And  the Fed- and the Federation,  uh, they had a treaty,  Uh, the Federation and  the  uh, Klingons thought that the people of the Enterprise had  um,    had broken this treaty,  but it really wasn't  the  people.
It-  of the  Enterprise.
It was  this  life form that  fed on hate.
He tried to make him hate each other.
And as they hated more he got stronger and stronger.
And he took over both ships.
But soon they found that  this was happening so  they kept-  they  made him feel that  there was no more hate, and there was just friendliness, and he left.
Let's see.
Yes.
Uh, well once  there was this retired fighter,  and  um,  there was this syndic-- I mean this man that  was trying to  um, take over all the sports of the United States,  and  their job was to  um,  uh, stop this man.
So there was this  retired fighter,  and his- his hands had been burned.
And so  the  person that was in charge of this group,  he went to talk to him and ask  him  if  this  man could impersonate him.
And  a fight-  fight him-  fight another champion.
And for a world fight.
And so  they told  this guy to  lose,  but he won.
So they lost all their money and that was that.
Well The Sons of Katie Elder.
Oh it was about  these four sons  that had left-  had left their um, mother when they were-  when they  um,    when they were young.
And she had sent one  son to college.
That was the youngest son.
And when they came back they-  They came back for a mother- their mother's funeral.
And they found that  uh,  her- her father had-  their father had been shot.
And they were finding- going around town trying to find out  who had shot him,  and they found out that he got shot in the back but he didn't f-  but they didn't find out who had shot him.
So they ran around town,  and finally,  they found out who had shot him,  and they tried to ambush him.
And then finally he got killed at the end, and it ended.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
We've had him for about a year and  two or three months.
Well,    we decided on Bear because  he's-  we knew that he was gonna be large because his  mother is pretty large.
And so  since a Bear is pretty large and hairy we called him Bear.
Well he's a German Shepherd.
Well there have been some incidents but  there-  let's see.
I can't think of anything right now.
Uh, we've had about five  parakeets.
Well the first one my father accidentally stepped on.
The next one flew out of the window.
And  uh, the next two, my brother got for his birthday,  and  one-  one got out in the middle of the night and died somehow.
And the other  uh,  uh, got out and died somehow too but we don't know how it died.
No.
Well I study English, Math, History,  uh, Latin,  sometimes Music during the Latin time.
Science and sometimes Crafts  and-  and then we have  lunch and then we have sports.
RD-SCHOOL-6.
Well usually  some of 'em have a carpool waiting,  so they get in the car and go home.
Some people go home by the bus.
And some poos-  people stay in school  and  do their homework until their parents come to pick them up.
And some of the upper schools board at the school so they stay at the school all the time.
Twelve.
Well I know what I do.
Usually I come home and dinner's usually ready, so I eat dinner.
Then  I  do my homework,  and if I have a lot, it'll last  mostly all night.
And  after that usually I study my history some.
Then I get in the bed and study some more.
Then I go to sleep.
And then sometimes I get up in the morning and study again.
Yeah.
Well on this report card  uh, I got four C plusses,  and that's not  that good.
But- Yeah.
And two As and  two B plusses, one B  and  one A plus.
Yeah.
It's about Yeah.
Eight  about.
Yeah, eight.
I have one now.
It's a man.
Well he hollers about dumb people  and  people don't do their homework.
People don't listen in school.
Peop-  and people who just  ask stupid questions.
And  things like that.
And the class officers for not taking down names when they were supposed to.
Sure.
Well,  once was about  uh, not paying attention.
I asked a question that he'd already answered.
Not really.
In a way it was my fault.
He's just a grouchy teacher.
Well  what I think the best teacher was  was in fifth grade.
We had team teaching.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2 and Mr.
RD-NAME-3.
I don't know.
I don't think so.
Well-  well it was a system that they use.
One-  one teacher would  teach one subject and then another-  then the other teacher,  and then sometimes they would teach a subject  together.
And then  at other times they would divide the class  and  one teacher would take one side of the class and the other would take the o-  other side and  I think you get more attention that way.
They give you more attention.
No.
Uh,  yes, in fourth grade.
Around Halloween time,  uh, everybody brought these little creepy crawlers and put 'em on her  chair and in her books and nothing really happened.
No.
Not that I can think of.
Oh except in sixth grade, this boy brought in this  sort of like  bag type thing that  come-  that you can send away from.
It makes a  kind of annoying sound when the teacher sits down.
When you sit down the air comes out and it's just ridiculous.
Yes.
Well she just-  she just sat down and said,  Well!
Who did that?
Well this year, not-  there's no pacif- specific bunch of boys I hang around with.
Since it's a new school and you have to get to know the  people.
Beg your pardon?
Yes.
Well,  most of the people took  French in the class I was in also.
Oh yes.
He's been to- he- he was at France for seven years.
Pretty well, but he had forgotten some of the things.
Yes, that was the French.
The one that took French.
Yes.
Well he was the kind of guy that's smart  and he knows what he's doing and everybody looked toward him to help him.
I mean, for him to help you.
Sometimes- but sometimes he was sick of helping people so  didn't help you.
Sometimes.
No.
I don't think so.
Oh I don't know  how you-  it  depends upon  personality of the person, what kind of person he is.
Well I think a doctor.
About twenty years I g-  To go through all college and school-  college,  about twenty years.
I haven't decided that yet.
I don't know.
Let's see.
First of all,  I'd  uh,  make a big mansion and have  all my family and  and all the friends that wanted to come to live with me.
And I'd probably have a swimming pool  and  maybe tennis courts,  but I don't play tennis that much.
And  well, speaking as I am now,  I would- It's a little imaginative but I'd have a football field and a baseball diamond.
And  um,    let's see.
Well that's about it.
And I'd try to make everybody just as happy as they wanna be-  could be.
Well sometimes  we have a big family dinner with my grandmother,  and  uh,  either here or at my grandmother's house.
Sometimes we  go  on a trip  or one person or two people in the family go on a trip.
And  usually the family does something together, goes out  to the museum,  to Williamsburg or-  or Washington Monument.
Well  on Christmas day we all go downstairs.
Then after that usually  we stay together for a couple of days and do things together, and then,  sometimes we separate.
One person'll go to  say New Jersey, and another person'll go to North Carolina.
And  well,  then we come back and  and  stay with the family, stay in the house, watch TV, just loaf around the house.
Go outside if it's snowing.
Play in the snow.
Get- go get some friends, have a snowball fight.
Decorations?
Well that's my mother's job around the house.
Not much.
Except with the Christmas tree.
Oh.
A sail boat.
Well,    it-  what do you mean?
What size it is?
Well it's about  ten feet  and  it's just a little boat, fits about two people.
Has- two sails.
At Arundel on the Bay.
That's in Annapolis, Maryland.
Well I know how to sail but  it doesn't seem to work out  with my father.
Well right now I  um,  kind of in between  uh,  whether-  uh, grown up things or child things, and I couldn't tell right now what I would want.
Let's see.
I can't- No.
No.
Not seriously.
Yes.
Well this was a few years ago.
And I was on a trapeze.
I was a great trapeze  um,    and I was swinging one day and my whole family was there and it was a  big circus day, and I was swinging along,  and I fell and I could just feel myself falling and yelling, somebody catch me!
Mommy!
Mommy!
Catch me!
And then  I just splattered all over the place, woke up.
No I don't think so.
Well usually an example  that I could-  um, well there's this boy in our class that never does his homework.
So  uh, he always knows that Mr.
RD-NAME-1's gonna yell at him and tell him to go to the  uh, cla-  go to Mr.
RD-NAME-2, that's our principal.
And  um,  well, if he did his homework and he did his work,  he could prevent this from happening.
Uh, the one that said  he shoulda watched his step.