Oh uh  basketball,  football, baseball, marbles,  hide and go seek,  root the peg, root the peg.
That's a- it's a game you put the uh  peg in the ground and you try to root up with your  teeth,  and if you don't root it right then you have to eat the dirt.
Mm.
Yeah you had to, it was a part of the game.
Well  um,  the person that was seeking the people they  counted to a certain number and  uh  the  other  p-  people uh  they  hid and  the last man that  uh was  found,  was supposed to be the winner of the-  that-  that  particular game you know.
Uh  I don't remember really.
Maybe by a different name but not by that name.
Yes, right  we played that.
Well you had somebody up  uh last person  or the  person first in the first game was the  one that you ask  about a certain  amount of moves and  if you didn't say may I then you had to either go back or stand in that  position.
Mm both.
Sand lot and organized you know in high school.
Mm-hm.
Group of guys from the community and- That's all.
No no.
this was just a  plain ordinary game that you got up  you know  on the spur of the moment.
Organized.
It was played in high school with uh equipment um,  referees, coaches and under a name Anything with a- a rhyme?
Yes we play hide and go seek.
We had a little different name its called niner niner baseball, Jack gonna have a see saw are you ready?
Yeah.
No.
No.
Sports, any type of sports.
Main-  mainly the major sports.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
I used to like Love of Life  and As the World Turns.
Um,  uh I- I remember but it would uh have to go into detail to really explain.
Mm.
Well I don't remember the  exact names of the  program I remember these two because they came on behind each other around  three thirty or four o'clock in the afternoon.
And uh  it was a matter of I think one  had uh  where the young girl was uh  thrown to the  professor of uh  a college and  they had a little  uh  thing going and  some uh-  she  had a baby and she was married to another guy because he was the- actually the younger guy and the foolish of the two.
And uh  I- I remember them but it  really would-  I'd have to go into detail to tell you about it.
Yes.
Uh the last complete movie I saw was uh The Killing of Sister George.
Right.
Well I saw about a fourth of uh  A Lion in the Winter the other night but the cameras went out  you know  right at the goody part.
Right.
Right.
And I was not on U Street either.
Very good picture, um based on-  course the um  previews and the name would  tend to uh  make you come to the movie but then when you get to the movie you find out The Killing of Sister George is really  concerned with uh  uh the what the decharacterization of a  particular person.
Um  the plot was uh  that the main character I forget her  name or what her  film name was, was  that uh-  well her film name was George I remember that  and uh George  in this picture played the part of a homos-  well uh  a  homosexual or  lesbian whatever you wanna call her,  and uh she  was living with a younger girl and  she was a actress  and the  supposedly main character of a TV serial  and she thought herself to be this- to be so  uh much in demand that they could not write her out, and the writers decided she did not carry the major portion of the rating-  TV rating on that series so they decided to write her out.
And she found out  about middle ways of the picture that they were gonna write her out and these things  made it very difficult for her  uh  in her daily life and also she was losing  her  partner  which was a girl  and uh  this  actually was the  combination of  the title of the picture, The Killing of Sister George.
Uh,  yes I  can tell you some about it I uh  went to a  about  three or four different  elementary schools within the North East section but my school that I remember most was my high school that I finished at Spingarn.
After transferring back and forth through all the other schools within the area I finally finished at   somehow or another at Spingarn.
Oh I studied all  subjects I even took a trade in brick masonry.
Well it was uh  a matter of learning the basic uh  things to brick laying,  blueprint reading,  uh how different buildings are put up,  what type of bonds are used in  the bricking  of the building, and so forth.
In high school?
In high school- Well um,  we all had different little jobs,  delivering papers- papers, working at  uh  wood yards,  delivering  coals  or coal, or coal yes, coal and wood  a coal and wood truck.
Definitely.
Oh,  she had her good points I think I see them more so now than what  then you know.
Not really but uh  she thought it to be.
Anything that displeased her.
Yes.
It was a he.
Well he was my eighth grade teacher  also my  football,  basketball coach and the leader or in charge of the safety patrol  of which I was a lieutenant.
so he was my favorite.
And he gave me good grades.
Beautiful.
He knew what he was doing.
Yeah.
Hm.
No I don't remember  any.
No.
No no  uh I don't remember any.
Yes.
Yes in the neighborhood  and also uh  same kids I went to school with because the  school was located in my neighborhood not far from my house.
Uh at what time?
High school?
Before high school?
Uh  the group that I remember most were the people that um  were of age between the ages of maybe um  fifteen and nineteen  and uh  we played basketball  together and against each other  and uh  went to movies  together  you know we just did everything almost together you know because then  women were not really of uh  an immediate matter.
It was not a matter of being a member  no,  it was not uh  anything that you had to do to become a member.
Um  I guess the only thing he had to do was not make a fool of himself you know  that was the only thing you know.
Yes.
Really just the same people that I uh  grew up with.
Yeah  definitely  mm-hm.
No  I um,  mainly these things are done individually yeah.
No.
Not the immediate group, no.
No.
A few things of which I will not  tell you.
Mm,  maybe I might uh  be more inclined to have finished college.
That's a lie.
Definitely.
Well I think I'd be in a position to get-  to be making more money and that's really what the whole thing is about.
Uh I'm alright.
An architectural engineer.
Well at the time it really um-  I really became very very interested in it I knew it would take at least five years from the brochures that I  had read  from different schools yes, uh.
Yeah.
Well,  I um-  I used to think about having a college in my name.
So I'd build a college that uh would hold  or  would uh  educate  many people, I mean thousands of people,  and then I'd be  very satisfied with  money in the bank and  enough  of the world nourishments for me.
A night's work.
See I work nights handling this mail.
And uh  it's a matter of moving the mail from one place to another  and so  uh  it's all laid out for you it's  you could say maybe  uh  manual labor.
Well we try to get together, we  have lots of uh  food and  this is how we r-  really remember  the holidays.
The main holidays.
Wh- when we could afford one.
Um  for Christmas this year,  I think I might be satisfied w-  with uh  maybe uh  a suit or two and  a car of the coming year.
No I don't.
No.
Oh yes.
Well I'm not a churchgoer but at one time I was uh  about to be killed or could have been killed,  uh while in a tractor-trailer  but for some reason or another I screamed out all at once for  the lord and uh  at that very time I thought that I might die.
I don't understand.
Well I have to ask you a question, is predestiny a linking to the bible?
No I don't agree with that.
No I do not agree.
I do not agree with predestiny.
Yes I think- right, you can.
for instance uh should I think that I would be killed at a certain moment I could-  or at a certain  street corner at a certain time I could very well lock myself into a room until this time has passed and  predestiny is shot all through.
It's little bits.