Hopscotch,  kick the can.
Uh,  hide and seek,  devil and the pitchfork.
Marbles.
Well it was not  generally played with  girls and boys.
And one person  was considered it.
I don't-   I don't recall how  he was chosen to be it.
But at any rate,  this person that was it,  his job  was to go out and try to find everybody.
The game is basically like hide and seek.
Based on that principle  and um,  the person who was it he would have to go out  and try to find the people who were hiding.
Upon finding one of the persons who was- who was hiding,  you would have to run back to the base.
And the base was where the can was.
Tap the can three times  until where he s-  it seems the cert-  the person and  that was it.
Now if the person  didn't beat  the person who was it back to the can,  then he would be in jail.
We put him in jail.
However if the person  beat the-  the person who was it back to the can who was able to kick the can,  he could run and hide again.
And all those persons who had been put in jail  uh,  were able to  run out of jail  and hide again all over.
So  it- it- it could be a pretty  rough spot for a person who was it who  couldn't run too fast.
Uh,  and you couldn't go too far off-  off from your post  because if you did,  maybe somebody was in the other direction.
They would come and kick the can.
And uh,   the game was um,  generally played at night a- as I remember.
Uh,  a lot of times you never found people.
as I said it was  played with boys and girls.
But um,  it was a game where  most of the time fellas would try to grand  in that  they could become the hero and save everybody.
That is, give everybody a chance to  run and hide again.
And  the way that  um,  another person became it  was that if the person who was it  caught everybody,  the first person who had gotten caught  he would be the person who was it.
He had to catch everybody first.
Uh,  everybody sat down  on the step or something.
And one person would say something like uh,   devil and the pitchfork-  fork, riding through the air,  and had something to do with colors.
You had to name some colors, I don't remember I just remember that part.
Then you had to guess colors.
Well,  you drew a box in the dirt  and you had  X number of people playing.
And they decided  how many marbles they wanted to play for and each person put in  that number of marbles,  that is, put 'em in the box.
Then they  drew another line  oh,  an X  n- number of feet away from the box.
And  the person who  the- that- that-   well,  once you got to that line,  well you shot from that line.
The person who came closest to the box  uh,  was the person who went first.
And um, you determine  who would go when by  who was closest to the box.
Jack be nimble, Jack be quick,  Jack jumped over the candlestick.
Little Miss Muffet,  sat on her tuffet,  eating her curds and wheys.
Along came a spider,  and sat down beside her,  and frightened Miss Muffet away.
Um,  hi diddle diddle, the cat and the fiddle, the cow jumped over the moon.
Um,  that's all I think I remember of that one.
Um,  Jack and Jill went up the hill  to fetch a pail water,  Jack fell down and broke his crown,  Jill came tumbling after, was a something like that.
Mm no.
No.
Outcasts, FBI,  Mission Impossible,  Honeymooners.
Well it was was in- with The Honeymooners  where um,  uh,  Ralph had  found some money  that was counterfeit,  but he didn't know it at the time.
And he was going around splurging,  and he had been warned by his wife    Alice  not to be too hasty in spending the money.
But as usual Ralph  was Ralph and  he had to do his thing.
And uh,  he had Norton working for him,  and Ralph went out and bought  new furniture,  new clothes, had a phone installed,  he was giving away money.
Had  gotten his  uh,  mother-in-law on his side  because she wanted some of the money.
And uh,  finally  came into the light that  the money was counterfeit.
And uh,    uh,  some poli-  well,  Ralph thought the police were coming to get him,  but  instead some gangsters came,  and knew th- and found out that he had the money.
And uh,  before the gangsters left that is,  uh, police came  and locked the gangsters up.
And uh,  then Ralph had to-  to uh,  uh,  satisfy his conscience.
And he didn't know how to do that and  his wife Alice was just  her usual self,  placing more burden on his conscience.
And he was trying to  tell her he was sorry but he didn't really know how.
And uh,  it was funny because he had to give everything back that he had  bought  and uh,  the phone hadn't been working properly and  the phone rang and  the lady  operator asked him uh, was the phone working alright,  he said that it was.
Then he  swallowed a couple of hard times and said,  would you come and take it out tomorrow?
And uh,  his wife Alice told him  that  not to worry about everything you know.
Said uh,  you can give most of the stuff back.
She said, but  I don't know what you're gonna do about those clothes because you're the only elephant in New York.
Cardozo.
Well,  I didn't  particularly  like it  um,  it was always like, congested.
A lot of people running around  with  false values I guess you might say, not really knowing  what they should be doing.
And uh,  I got caught up into it myself.
One of the best parts about uh,  high school was  the sports part, you know.
I liked to-  I liked  playing  basketball, running track,  football,  baseball.
What did I study?
Well,  I had started to take uh, a uh,  technical course.
Because I knew that uh,  my parents didn't have the money to send me to college.
And uh,  well I really never thought about going to college anyway.
Fact I never thought I'd finish high school.
So um,    anyway, one of my teachers  decided that I should  change my-  m- my major  you know.
And uh,  take a  college  preparatory course.
And uh,  well,  that's what I did.
And the courses were related to uh,  preparing you for  college.
Do you mean at school?
Oh.
Well,  after you found out who was gonna fight  who wasn't gonna fight,  you try to find out  where the, you know, the basketball game, who was gonna play basketball.
And things like that.
And if it were a Friday night where the party was.
No,  not really.
No.
Plenty of them.
Well,  this one  he was a man, he was very  uh,  sarcastic and he picked on people.
And uh,  he didn't really holler at you but  he'd ask you to give book reports.
And  seems as if he had read every book that was out.
And he expected you to be able to tell exactly what was in the story,  and he would ask you  what was the theme and  what was the significance of this  particular character,  and all that type of stuff.
And it would make me nervous,  and it made everybody else nervous.
Nobody wanted to give a book report.
And he used to make girls cry.
I don't know.
Depends upon what his purpose was.
I think that he could have done it another way.
Yes.
She was a woman in the third grade.
She was real nice.
Uh,  The main thing that stands out in my mind is she was pretty.
And all the other teachers was pretty- you know, pretty sad.
And uh,  I expected her to be  not so nice because she was pretty I guess.
And uh,  she was just real friendly with the students.
No I just remember her.
No.
I've left that bag.
Yeah.
Tough guys.
Well,  parties, Well we went to parties and  hung out on the corner,  played pinball machines.
And  things of that nature.
Uh,   Liked to fight.
Liked a lot of excitement, that's what it was.
And uh, always trying to do something  for excitement.
Neighborhood.
Yeah.
Hawk.
He was the baddest and the biggest.
Right.
No.
No.
Uh,  well I don't like squares.
Someone who  really isn't aware  what's going on.
What's going on  basically in uh- in this particular environment not necessarily in the world.
Knowing how to cope with uh,  everyday situations.
Mm,  not particularly.
Uh,  we'd have to have certain things in common obviously.
But beyond that uh, I would say no he'd have to be a  pretty uh,  reliable person.
Trustworthy.
An architect.
Well,  I just realized it wasn't for me  uh,  when I started taking drafting.
I didn't do too well in drafting.
They just wanted me to be good at something.
Well,  naturally I'd  live  better.
I would uh,  try to set up some type of program that uh,  would uh,  help the community.
When I say the community I'm talking about the black community.
So that uh,  younger people could be better directed and better trained and better skilled.
Uh,  I'd try to help  the welfare situation,  cause often times people don't get enough money on the welfare as well as people, as our people, are gonna get more than they need.
But in most cases, in most instances that I know,  they don't get enough.
So I'd try to  shall I say break the corruption that's uh,  causing some people to get  more than what they're getting and  not enough people  to get what they need.
Uh, what do you mean?
Do you mean like buy something?
Well I'd probably buy a nightclub,  a package store,  a set of apartments,  some real estate,  stock.
Well I'm a salesman.
And uh,  talk to people, try to  interest them into buying clothes.
Interest them into buying ?
Uh,  basically that's it.
Uh,  well normally they have a big dinner.
And uh,  mainly  everything is centralized around the dinner.
Christmas.
Mm-hm.
Well as I said we have a big dinner and  there is m- more of a uh,    uh,  friendly giving spirit Which sets it apart from Easter.
And uh,  often times  we see more of our relatives at Christmas than we do at Easter.
El Dorado.
Plenty of times.
Couple of gang fights.
A shooting.
And I didn't have a gun.
No they were- uh, they were shooting at me I know that, and I was running you know.
Mm-hm.
Frightened.
Scared.
Depends  upon what you're talking about uh,  I think that there are certain things that are  not within the  one's ability-  uh, well w- within one's ability to control.
And there are other things  that are.