Yeah.
Well the games we played were um, usual games of a child, Cowboys and Indians and um, and then we grew older we just changed to uh,  building our own little carts, and stuff like this you know.
Then  oh, I'm not a- Yeah, this is it.
Well um,  it's just-  if you hit a marble- hit the marble, and knock out the ring or whatever you have- you know, whatever circle you had or square, whatever you had- then it was yours.
And  just like a-  it's more so-  Well now-  now that I look at it, it's more so like gambling, you know?
Because you- we- whatever you won, you kept.
So that's the type of game we played and uh, well um,  my pirents- parents were strict, so I didn't-  I couldn't go out that much.
This is- was  when I was younger.
When I s- When I grew older, then I-  I started moving around more.
Not much.
It was more of with the fellas.
This was it.
Mostly with the fellas.
Basketball.
I didn't play any baseball cause I didn't like it.
Football was alright.
But basketball was the main sport I played.
A lot of it.
I ran track in school.
Yeah.
Mm,  none that I can recall right off hand but  um, we counted-  Well,  whoever-  whoever  the majority decided who was-  who's gonna count and then uh,  then somebody s-  call ten.
Count to ten, then we'd go out and find- whoever we found first was it.
Then everybody was-  He told everybody who was- who he tagged.
Then from then on,  just kind of rotated whoever he caught.
You could-  You could catch a man many times, or the same person but uh,  you would uh,  that's w- that's the way the game would go.
No.
We never used anything like that.
Mm, not much.
Oh in- now or w- then?
Now, huh.
Well I usually like  to watch uh,  Joey Bishop  because they have a whole lot of-  a variety of uh,  people in it.
The type of people I like to see like uh, Lou Rawls,  people like this.
Uh, I like- I like jazz.
So uh, this type of show that- that type of people come on  that time of night.
So uh, so this  tind of shows I like and some  may- maybe uh,  Bonanza on  weekends.
On Saturday and Sunday, ma- majority of time I'm out.
I'm playing a guitar or something like that.
Yeah, I play a little bit, yeah.
No, I- Like I say, I just got to Service so I'm  tryna get together with my music and everything.
No, depends on what's playing and who's playing.
Well um,  it'd be a close thing between The Good, Bad and Ugly and uh,  For a Few Dollars More.
That's what I'd say.
Well um, Well both of 'em were their own same basic thing- Bounty hunters.
And um,  well,  this fella, he-  they had a set up  whereas  he would uh- he would turn 'em in  for the bounty in each county.
And then when they were about to hang him,  he would  um-  They had a way  that he would-  He was a marksman.
He would  shoot the rope, and he would ride past the o- other fella'd be following the horse, and they would ride off.
And they would do this all- you know,  on and on.
On and on to um-  until they found about some type of gold that was hidden,  and um-  that everybody was after.
Then another f- uh, person  was brought into the picture.
Well he was seen you know, off and on during the pictures  and makes his presence known.
Then uh,  later on in the movie, he would- came out more.
And  all three of 'em were after the gold.
Then um, the two fellas who were  partners in-   in this uh, scheme they had going, uh,  end up killing the fella  at the end.
Well,  it was like a circle.
They had it at a circle, and everybody was supposed to draw on it everybody.
And uh,  this other fella, the one who was the marksman,  he gave the-  his friend, supposedly,  the gun, which was uh, loaded- wasn't loaded.
So therefored he wouldn't have to draw against but one man,  and that was the man in front of him.
And then when other fella  found out he- when he- after everything was over when he found out about it,  he wa- you know, he was kind of mad.
Then the-  then the fella put him up on top of this uh-  on this cross, which is where his gold and set the g-  two bags of gold right in front of him.
And had a rope on his neck,  so if he moved, he would hang himself.
Then when- after he uh,  at the f- he was riding off and he stopped  about-  I wanna say about-  about a hundred yards or so.
Then he uh,  shot the rope and  out with the picture.
And he just rode on off and-  And the movie- And the music dramatized it all the way through.
I think that's what sold the picture because the music-  the music they had uh,  dramatized the picture.
And that's helped it a lot.
The latest-  Uh,  A Stranger in Town.
Well um,  it was on the same principle.
It was-  It was just a follow up-  a poor one at that though.
A follow up uh, of uh, The Good, Bad and Ugly, it was- be bad.
But the character they had in there, I guess he was- It was a new- tryna put a new character in it.
He just didn't work out.
He didn't- He seemed  more like uh,  Doctor Doolittle type.
And they had him playing a role like that.
And it just didn't get anything out of it because he didn't s-  He didn't even appeal.
So therefore you didn't pay too much attention to the movie cause I took somebody else to see it.
Cause they wanted to see it, and I didn't get to enjoy it.
I just went- I lay up there and went to slep- You know, dozed off cause I didn't dig it.
No.
No I haven't.
That was before my time.
Yeah.
I have a- I had a-  quite a few dogs.
Uh, split.
I had a white one and a black one.
And uh, both of 'em   ran away.
My father didn't like but one of 'em.
And uh,  he stayed with us for a long time.
And this one day, he just walk on off.
Yeah.
My father had a- He had brought a boxer.
And after you paid all that money for that,  he just, you know,  that was his favorite.
Thoroughbread boxer for him.
So the other dog we just neglected.
And it- The whole family wanted this dog but my father didn't like it.
So uh,  the dog for some reason, he just walked on off one day and never came back.
Well, Well I- While I was in school, I- I drew a lot because I um-  That's one thing I liked.
I really liked it.
And um,  the lady who  kept us  after school,  she was a artist.
And she had some um-  some pictures on exhibition down uh,  s-  Washington, uh- Uh, yeah, I- Yeah.
I was gonna- Yeah.
She has a m- pictures down at the exhibition down there.
And um, well,  we had nothing to do but all day  til our mothers got home,  was to sit up and draw  all day.
So after awhile,  it's-  you know, it just caught on.
And uh, in school, this was-  They would take me out of class to uh,  draw something for school or something like- like that.
So from uh,  elementary to junior high school, this is all I- mostly what I did, you know what I mean?
Cause I had a art teacher who uh,  had me draw  background for the school plays and stuff like this.
And he would take me home, and you know, be-  go back and work on school plays and stuff like that.
And I, you know-  Me and him just were close together on art.
This was just what I did all day long.
He'd take me out of class any day.
Dra- Uh, well,  it's- it's al- always related to art because it's Mechanical Drawing.
I had to free hand in that too  because uh, when I went to uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High,  I uh-  I was in this class,  and um, they said Mechanical Drawing.
Dr- The last word hit me, drawing.
So I went on in there  and uh,  and the teacher said uh-  Well he said he like the way I did it.
He said- Well uh, this is all I did  the whole t- uh, whole time.
While everybody's working on  sheet metal, something like that.
He said he just wanted me to draw.
I would draw plans for him and stuff like this.
Well it wasn't too much to do after school unless you played ball, something like that.
You know, without any money, you couldn't do too much.
So we played- we played ball  and went to um,  parties occasionally.
Uh- I- I remember one like that,  but I don't remember her name.
And uh,  now I think about it, she was crazy.
Oh you know how boys are, mischief and everything.
And we get into a lot of trouble.
And uh, she would holler,  I don't know why you have boys- You know, she would holler like that.
But uh, once you get older, you know how- you realize how them people are.
Eccentric.
Well quite a few.
Some of 'em uh,  they try to help you.
That's what I appreciated.
You know, when you uh-  when you really didn't- you c- didn't care anything about the class therefore you didn't try to do too much in it.
But they would try to s- You know,  get your interests  going in it.
Then once you start understanding things a little bit more, you would uh,  be able to appreciate it more.
Therefore, you would get interested again and you would try to achieve something in it.
But uh,  so teacher was dull,  then the class- subject was dull and you didn't get anything out of it.
The grades were low.
And this- s- s- I think this is the way you can tell uh, you know,  on how teachers-  teachers is going  or how good she is about her grades  she give out.
I- None of them bothered me that much.
Didn't make any difference cause I uh-  I had so many diversion that uh,    Mm, no.
I wasn't that mischief.
But other fellas did, and uh, I was- I was more of a- When I was young I was more of a quiet type.
I didn't uh,  mess around too much.
Yes.
Most of 'em are married.
And um,  most are older crowd.
And uh, like, people who um,  dig jazz like I do and like to go to uh,  theaters and see  jazz artists and stuff like this.
This is the type of people I hang with.
Not that I know of.
Yeah most of 'em are Negro.
Mm, no.
Nuh.
Everybody's doing something  different so everybody leading his own way.
And like um, I mean coming to music, I play the guitar so  I'm you know,  that leader in that.
Then somebody else is- has um,  a wider range of c- uh,  of records and knows  what's happening.
So he's the leader in that field.
And I have one fella who's very educated, so he's the leader in that field.
It's you know it vary- Yeah, they varies on what the subject is, then you a leader in that.
Wake up.
Yeah.
Year.
Cold sometimes.
Well it w- what I mean cold, when it rained you were cold, and-  and um,   just miserable.
You were- Most-  I think what it was-  The worst part of it was you- you were  homeless- You'd be lonely.
You know what I mean?
And you couldn't get that uh-  You couldn't communicate  as freely with uh,  you know, fellas over there  as you could  you know, with your people back home, or whoever you communicate, whoever you tell your troubles to.
So um,  but you did have uh,  had some diversion or action to where you are.
You could get away sometimes.
You go down to the village or something like that.
And to listen to the Viet- uh, Vietnam band.
And they played uh-  They never- they never- they don't sound-  The sound is strange.
You know .
They play all this uh, Vietnam something something.
Yeah but um- I was with the Artillery.
Yeah.
Aw, actually very- it was- it was-  it was unforeseen enemies far as we were concerned.
Mm-hm.
Oh we saw 'em, you know, but like, when they were capturing us like this but uh,  unless you, you know- you c-  What-  what happened they would attack.
You know, I mean shoot y- But you would hardly see 'em because-  because of the terrain,  dense and everything.
And you would hardly see 'em.
But uh, you would-  you didn't feel effect   definitely.
Oh you know,  couple of times.
Well I was standing  with two fellas,  then a mortar came in t- hit both of 'em.
And then I was standing right in the middle of it, and nobody- It didn't even catch me, No, they were in- They were hurt pretty bad, had to go to the hospital.
Then when the ambulance came to take 'em up, they got- the ambulance got stuck in the mud.
Well it was- I w- we were mad-  mad as hell because uh,  you know, these people were hurt.
They were bad, know- you know.
And once a person got hit, they were hollering and all this you know, And then fella got stuck in the mud.
Telling me how does that look, you know.
Yeah, they brought a truck around to get it out, but I- by that time, they had enough three quarter around there to take 'em to the hospital.
Definitely.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
I would uh, concentrate on more if I ever-  You know, from school on up, I would concentrate more  in school than I did.
Definitely.
Well as far as I know, art was-  Art was it.
But then after uh, got into drafting,  and I checked that out.
It was nice, but then I checked on uh,  higher- out of school was set up for it  and um,  how many years you would have to go.
to acquire go, you know what I mean?
Because if you didn't just wanna be a j- simple draftsman, you know what I mean?
You wanna, you know, obtain some goal.
And the only way to do this I can see- You can achieve this  was to go to uh, college for architectural engineering and drafting.
And uh,  I didn't wanna go them years- All I wanted-  I like drawing.
This is my primary  reason for going in this, and uh, well, you know, this crit- this uh- this our requirements for doing this.
So uh,  so.
Well it would be hard to say.
First I would n-  Depends on how much money- It's all the money in the world?
Then that makes .
What would everybody else have?
If this was all the money in the world, what would everybody else have?
So then I w- I would be just l-  It would not f- it would be too much I could do because  nobody else would have none, so what it be worth- you know.
Then it would be something else wouldn't it?
Uh-huh.
Check.
That sounds more like it.
Well then uh  I would  start uh,  business.
I would go into a lot of fields.
With that type of money, I would go to a lot of fields.
So  by the time-  Let's say about five years,  I would be established in so many fields, and I would- and um,  I w-  You would run across a lot of interesting people, therefore  your ideas- You would have  a wider concept of life and people and-  and places and things.
I would travel abroad  and meet different people.
And this is uh- So when I-  So I won't be one sided because a lot of people in America are one sided.
They don't have uh,  insight that  a person who have- who has been abroad and stuff like this.
So I would go  like, for knowledge and wisdom.
Well it depends on- depends on occasion.
Christmas I'm home  Uh, New Year's, party.
Fourth of July, picnic.
And Labor Day, you know, similar same thing.
No it's O- O- Yeah, October.
Well-  Well,  I was a good time.
That was a good time.
Go out Trick or Treating.
Everybody was having a good time.
If somebo- If some- If some  older fella wouldn't come and grab your bag.
It was a good time.
No.
Hm.
It's hard to say.
Well,  well it happened so fast that  only thing I thought about  and th- and this powder was burning, so if- I knew if I went up  everybody was going up, so I took 'em over in the bushes.
And um,  so if they were gonna attack, they would be in the bushes and most likely as dark as it was,  they wouldn't be able to see 'em.
And I went back to the gun,  and that part I was burning.
So w- they got that out, then they started firing back, and they were f-  were firing all around everything.
They didn't know where- where this stuff was coming in at.
But all I knew- It had to be coming  in-  Well I couldn't say.
Because it- Yeah, uh, nah.
Then I couldn't say that either cause I-  it happened so fast.
But uh- Nah, we didn't have a chance to get scared.
We were mad more than anything else.
This the attitude you have?