Well I play with  uh, rope  and sometime  kickball, and  play with dolls, the dollhouse.
Well,  um,  take many people as you want  and you  um-  you can have partners sometime for  play double dutch.
Well um,  you have to have a long rope.
You can have two ropes if you want.
And make 'em even and then  uh,  two people-  one person get on one end,  the other person  get on other end and take the end  and you sposta  um,  turn it-  turn the rope.
Well the um,  people that jump  sposta run in, run in the rope and started jump in it.
Mm,  sometime we um-  we count  by ones and  sometime we count by tens.
No.
No, we don't say that.
Well s- well sometime,  um,  people starts fights around our way.
We get to fighting.
Well sometime people talk about your mother and everything.
Like when somebody's mother sick we be on the front porch,  and somebody start hollering and everything, we tell 'em,  don't uh, holler and stuff, and they keep hollering.
Then we get all mad and everything and start fighting.
Yeah, sometime we play  Old Lady Witch, see.
One person have to be a witch,  and you have to get  uh, far apart from 'em.
And  um-  and then it gotta be a lot of  uh, children that go  playing around and messing with their stuff,  and if you come in her castle,  and um,  the children have to say  um,  what time is it?
And the uh, witch have to say uh, one o'clock,  then you got to keep on saying that all the way up to twelve o'clock.
And when uh, you  get to  oh-  When they say,  what time is it?
and the  Old Lady Witch say,  midnight,  then uh, the witch start running after.
And if th- you catch 'em- and if the witch ca-  catch 'em,  uh, you gotta be the witch.
Well sometime you put your feet in-  put your feet all around in-  in a circle, then  you-  you say some kind of words or something like that and-  and the person that get picked out  got to be the witch.
Mm,  like eenie meenie miney moe, and stuff like that.
Mm,  eenie meenie miney moe, catch a pickle by his toe.
If he hollers let him go,  eenie meenie miney moe.
Oh,  My mother told me to pick this one  right  over here, but I turned around  and picked this one right over here.
No, I don't know no more.
Yeah, that's Hide and Go Seek.
Well um,  you put your feet in- a lot of people put your feet in, and then you could say,  eenie meenie miney moe  or my mother told me to pick this one.
You can say any one of them and the- uh, the last person to uh, get out gotta be the one that  gotta find you.
And you  um-  And you count to ten,  or count to anything you want and tell the people.
And uh, the person that's it,  uh, they got  go find her.
Other children gotta  um,  make up a rule like,  um,  no hiding around my base  or  no hiding off the block or something like that.
And then  you go-  and then  um,  the children go hiding  til um-  the person  count to  twenty or something like that, and then when it get finished  go look for him.
Well,  uh, before he start f-  looking for 'em,  he got to say,  do one first or last  or the third one like,  um,    if he find one person- if he find the first one,  and he say  um,  First-  The first one I catch is it then th-  that person  that he catch first is it and then everybody else come out  and go around the base until he  start counting.
Well you have to have  teams maybe,  like six on one team and six on the other.
And um,  and the people that sposta kick, sposta  get-  get in the line,  and oh-  And the people on the other team sposta spread out  on the bases and stuff like that,  and uh, the person  that sposta kick first,  sposta kick and run to first base.
And then if the people don't catch it,  you can run out  all the way around the base if they don't catch it.
But if they catch it, and uh- and you still running and they hit you, you out.
Um,  on Saturdays I like to look at cartoons like  Superman and  um,  Marine Boy and  um,  and The Gladiators and stuff like that.
Well Saturday I saw it-  Before yesterday, Saturday I saw it, and um-  and a whole lot of-  and Marine Boy and  his father and a whole lot of  cr- and a crew,  were uh- had to-  were underwater and had to  go to  um,  go to some kind of place to meet  this captain and the ship.
And um,  and the crew and stuff had to-  There was another crew,  and had to shoot these things out  to uh,  so you-  and there was some kind of flames or something you had to shoot out  so you know your way back.
And uh, you had to go to this  uh,  t-  tight  tunnel,  and uh, they had to blast the way through  with some  um, missiles or something.
And um, then they got through and  so um,  and then  there was this  monster  controlled by this other mean man  and his crew  and um-  and the monster started chasing him.
It was a  like a long snake, but it was about a hundred or a thousand feet long.
And um,  and Marine broy-  Boy  got out-  got out of the space ship  and uh, had to take this, some kind of  um,  gum so he could breathe under water.
And um,  um,  and then he went out  and took it and  um,  then he started swimming  and um-  and then he saw the monster, and the monster  uh,  grabbed him and knocked him out or something and he  Marine Boy hit his head on this rock.
And then uh, some men  went- came-  The men  that control the monster came out and took Marine Boy.
And  uh- and Marine Boy got this friend.
It's a  uh,  some kind of fish or something and it's name  um,    um-  I forgot his name but it's some kind of fish or something.
Um,  and  um,  and-  and the monster knocked  uh,  the fish h-  the fish out  and uh, the-  the men came out  and got Marine Boy and the fish,  and uh,  took 'em in some kind of  cave,   and the master that  controls  the um,  the monster  um,    uh, th-  put 'em in this cave  and so they- and they stayed there  for awhile.
And um,  um, and then  the um-  the crew that uh- that was with Marine Boy  and his father uh, found out that Marine Boy was gone.
Cause Marine Boy went out to look see  which way is the best way for them  to go through the tunnel,  cause it was too uh,  too tight-  too small for them to get in.
I forgot what happened at the last part.
Mm,   oh when um-  when it was almost Christmas,  I saw this movie  about  um,  Santa Claus  and  I went to Kennedy and see  this picture.
Me and my brother and my cousin went to see  picture about Santa Claus  and  um,  and some  green people,  they were uh,  uh- They were people, real people, but they were  green,  and they were up in space.
And Santa-  And there was a um-  a lady and a man, they were wife and husband.
And two children were a boy and girl.
And uh, Santa Claus went up there,  outer space in oh,  n-  I  think he took  them  and  carried 'em,  and gave 'em some  toys or something.
And  there was these people-  there were some bad people that um,  that caught Santa Claus and the children  and took 'em to some kind of place.
And um,  and they didn't do nothing to 'em.
They fed 'em and stuff like that.
But  somehow  um,  they started fighting and stuff.
And then they got away  and stuff.
Mm-   Yes,  I had  three of 'em.
Three dogs.
Well my last dog I had, his name was Rico.
And um,  and he used to bark real loud and stuff.
And-  and chase us around the block  and start barking and my mother have to  come out and tell and us to stop.
Cause you- he- he used to have a big mouth.
Well,  I study Arithmetic,  Reading,  um,    Social Studies and  all sorts of things.
Arithmetic.
Um,  I-  Well I like the  plus  s- and  sometime I don't like the  um, takeaway,  but I like the plus and uh,  uh,  and the times.
I know a little bit of times but not a lot.
Cause we were just learning that before we got out of school.
Well,  um,  like,  let's see, Saturday,  uh, we went to the skating ring, and sometimes we go to the pool.
T- Today when we come back from here,  we going downtown.
And then Tuesday, we going to the pool,  and Wednesday we might go to the skating ring.
Well sometime- Well sometime we go to store  or we go out somewhere with our mothers.
Uh, a teacher name Miss RD-NAME-2.
Sh- Well s- she used to beat people with the ruler cause  they brought candy and stuff to school and you don't supposed to bring candy.
You can bring candy and stuff to school when it's lunch time, but you can't eat it in the classroom.
Cause there's this boy around my way,  his name is RD-NAME-4.
He lives up the street.
And he s- he used to sit by this girl  name  uh,  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-3, she used to be my brest-  best friend.
Uh, he s-  and before lunch time he stole her dollar.
And my tea- And he always steal things from my teacher name Miss RD-NAME-2.
She uh-  she told him to pull off his stocks and shoes.
First he told 'em to look in his pockets and everything.
She checked in there, and he ain't have 'em.
And then,  um,  he- um-  Then she told him to take off his shoes,  and it wasn't there and then,  she had a idea that they were in his socks, so  uh, she told him take off his socks,  and she checked all through his socks and there it was in there.
W- Uh, he got sent down to the office.
He almost got p-  got put out of school.
He did that twice.
He al- He did it to me one time, and uh, he got sent home.
He got out of school.
Well sometime it's fair.
You mean in school?
Mm,    let's see.
One time when um- when me and this girl were playing, when she came to classroom,  and me and this girl were playing  with uh, this girl's toy.
And uh,  and my teacher hollered at us- Miss RD-NAME-2  hollered at us  and um,  and told us  uh, stop playing.
Cause she had a reading group.
People up there reading.
Yeah it was-  No.
Well my s-  that was my uh, teacher before I got out of school.
Her name was Miss RD-NAME-2.
She was a real nice teacher.
She- she- she took us on trips and stuff.
She took us to the  Capitol  and  uh-  Uh, I forgot what other places, but,  we had a real good time in her classroom.
We had parties and stuff.
And she didn't holler.
See people were good in her classroom.
Be nice to her?
Mm-hm.
Yeah, that was my kindergarten teacher when I first came to that school.
Her name was uh, Miss RD-NAME-3.
She was a real mean teacher.
She wouldn't give  children a  chance to explain  when uh, somebody don't do nothing,  that-  Like when a child does-  does something,  the child blames it on somebody else,  and uh, she doesn't give the child a chance to explain.
Uh, let's see,    No.
Not that like that.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, it's  RD-NAME-2,  her sister,  her cousin RD-NAME-2,    and her-  her-  RD-NAME-2's sister RD-NAME-3  and  RD-NAME-2's sister,  RD-NAME-3 and another sister name  RD-NAME-2  and her brother name  uh,  RD-NAME-2 and his little brother  name RD-NAME-2  and  my next door neighbor RD-NAME-2-  RD-NAME-2.
We call her RD-NAME-3  cause her middle name is RD-NAME-1.
And w- and her brother RD-NAME-2  and my brother RD-NAME-2.
And  a whole lot of people.
Well there's this boy and- lives next door to uh, RD-NAME-3  and her brother name  uh, RD-NAME-2.
His name-  uh, the boy's name is RD-NAME-1.
He came from um,  uh- Yeah he came from- And his mother talks-  Him, and his mother, and his aunt  talk a funny way, you know.
Oh.
Yeah, Jamaica.
Yes.
Yeah, sometime, when he first came there,   uh, we couldn't hardly understand him but we can understand him good now.
Him and his mother and his aunt.
And there's some people that come from Jamaica too,  uh, his  aunts and uncles, stuff like that,  they talk the same.
Well people say that  um,  RD-NAME-3  and  um,  RD-NAME-2 is white.
I don't know for real.
Well sometime we'll let 'em play with 'em but um,  if we know 'em real good,  and they bad and everything,  uh, we won't play with 'em.
Sometime people go around my way and make  fun of 'em and stuff.
Well everybody can't really make up their mind cause sometime  we have so much fun we don't know what to do.
See sometime the girls chase the boy one night,  and then the other night, the boys chase the girls.
We run all the way around the block.
Mm,  sometime RD-NAME-2.
Well,  uh, RD-NAME-2,  mm, she-  I don't know!
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um,  well sometime I wanna be  a nurse.
Sometime I wanna work where my mother work  but  she gonna quit that job in September.
And she said if-  when she get out of that job-  See she  cooks.
Uh, she work at  RD-WORK-2  at  the cafeteria.
And um,  uh- Well my friend name  RD-NAME-2,  she  went uh-  when school opened she's-  her sister  said-  and she said that she gonna be a nurse that  uh, give  chi- little children needles and stuff.
Well I asked her that.
She gotta-  I told her that she gotta study and stuff,  and she said she is.
And I asked her  um-  you-  and I said, she got-  you got to take a test too, don't you?
and she said she already took the test.
See she twelve.
And she said-  Yeah.
And she said that her sister can pass her up to be fifteen or fourteen.
Buy me up all them good clothes that people got.
Well,  pantsuit.
See I ask my father to buy me a pantsuit,  but sometime-  Well one day I'm'a ask him when he get paid to buy me a pantsuit.
Oh, I'd give my mother-  my mother-  my mother some so she could  pay the bills and stuff.
Keep it.
Yeah.
Yeah I'd buy the- like some,  Barbie.
I might buy a new bike  or a  pair of rollerskates  to go to the rolling ring-  the skating ring.
Or m-  Cause I want my own skates.
I have some skates that I can  play with around the house, me and my brother, and uh, but I want some skates  to um,  to go to the rolling ring-  I mean the skating ring.
Well we- Well mostly we clean up.
And um,  the last thing we do on most  is  decorate the tree.
Well the night before Christmas,  uh, sometime me and my brother stay up late, and some company comes around sometime.
And  my mother tell us to go to bed and she'll wake us up  at night  and um,  and bring us some-  and-  while it's some of the toys are here  and then uh-  See first before  it gets night, my mother  brings some stuff in  wrapp-  it's wrapped up in boxes and stuff.
And um,  sometime my brother has to go out the room.
And my mother  and I stay in the room with my mother and help my mother  wrap something for my brother  and then I have to go out the room.
Cause see she has it in a bag and stuff.
Mm-hm.
He bigger.
He thirteen.
He about  the same size as RD-NAME-2.
See he's small for his age and I'm small for my age.
Ten.
Well, for Christmas I got a Easy Bake Oven.
Well alls you got to do is put a light bulb in.
Mine is blue.
And  you put a light bulb in this  little place you gotta unscrew it  and put the  light bulb in and  uh s-  and it got a plug and you plug it in,  and it gets hot real fast.
And then you can mix things with the- See,  it comes with accessories like  cake mix and stuff like that.
Mm-hm.
Sometime I cook bacon in it.
I used up all my things though.
I'm- Mm-hm.
I don't play with it that much.
Cause I usually play outside and go places with my mother.