Well  when I was youngster?
Well I used to uh  play marbles, you know.
And uh  I did play a little um  um  we called it  uh the thing you throw, Jacks!
You know, with a little ball and little jack, catch 'em up  one at a time, then  then if you get the whole bunch,  then you went again.
Tag?
Yeah, you it and what not, like that?
Oh, you just run and  if I  touch you like this here, then you It!
Then you got to run someplace or what not.
Not all over the place, just, you know  ordinary.
Usually there isn't- let's say in the block like that, put it like that.
Uh-huh.
Well,  when they started the game?
Uh,  well the kids usually, they is making up stuff they hear, somebody say something like that and  then they pick it up.
It's like marbles.
See then you shoot like I said, it's color to 'em.
Eh, and it's where you play Four Corner Knuckles.
You shoot it from here.
Aw!
You would- exactly ??
the- the bags, the- definite- Yeah!
Oh you sposta  Hop, skip, like this you know, and uh- and uh who would get over the line  would win.
That's all.
I'm just ordinary now I don't know.
I'm not using no words, know what I mean like I sh- should though, I mean, maybe I can, but I'm not.
Just ordinary.
Not here, not lately.
I used to  few years ago but I have one now but I mean it's  broke.
It's- it like a heirloom it's a-.
My sister, she deceased you know, we don't get it fixed, I don't care if it cost one dollar, two dollar, whatever it cost.
We just you know, we just uh let it set there.
No!
Last picture I saw     I was  near Maryland,  anyways, Washington area, but  it's still you know it's in the- it's in the District in the Maryland side.
And that was for adults only.
The name of the picture was-  what the name of the picture now?
Woman in the House something, anyway.
Oh, sexual acts.
Mm-hm.
One- one colored guy and a white guy together and they had this white girl with them, but they was buddies like,  all, like three be buddies.
We come for, where they call, what not you know, like you uh,  you go in on subject, like in here today, ya see?
And uh you gotta,  you represent yourself, I represent myself, and she represent herself.
But one female in the whole crowd so  then they got in to this little place down somewhere in the South there and uh  by George, then they just uh  shot him down and shot him down, and what not like that.
But it was- it's sexy, but they- they- anyway the sheriff  tooked advantage of the lady,  lady in the cell.
That something?
He got some stuff in the cell.
Yeah!
After he kill the two boys,  white boy and the colored boy.
But it's sure how things happen.
you know in them-  Them kind of towns, like what that- It's re- realistic, I mean, it's uh very nice.
But uh..
Me?
I'm born here.
I have.
Really have.
I was born up in the hos- um  Home Packer Hospital th-  New York Avenue and uh  Kirby and uh Morgan Street  That's a playground now.
I seen a lot.
I mean when I was coming up, when I was youngster,  say about say,  fourteen or  seventeen years old, you couldn't go to Dunbar School  less you was  light-skinned  or had a  you know a,  family background.
But a poor guy like me had to go to Armstrong.
That's more like- like a trade.
But see uh Dunbar was different.
I gotta be Miss So and So and So's son,  you know, or So and So and So on's daughter.
I'm's- Am I talking you to death?
Am I talking you to death?
Yeah!
Uh.
Yeah.
Uh  the one I saw that was Audie Murphy, that's To Hell and Back.
They was in the Service, you know.
You- you- you know that picture?
Well- uh, we did.
Oh that's when he was in the Serv-, he went there as a Buck Private, see?
And from there, he just uh  elevate us up but he never got over hiding sorrow.
But he did all the damage.
He like to say, I'm ready to die, or what happened,  is took chances that worked for the little guy or what not.
Come back safe,  and he come back here,  United States, with a California Moon Star on our way- on our way believe it or not, Hey Boy!
No.
But anyway I'm just saying,  that's how you learn this up.
Yeah, he's a-  most decorated uh  Army boot soldier.
It was a colonel, or what not,  or a general.
That was that the-  They's called it the  To Hell and Back!
The Nazis and gangster pictures too, what not.
Like I used to love all them.
Fine pictures you know.
I- I like the- like uh uh  George Raft?
Now I ain't talking about the-  that was uh Scarface, the- that- that was, there.
And uh,  he's have a-  Officer of the Peace took a hand, threw up the hand ??
here And they shoot a man down, like oh, that was good.
Gangster pictures you know.
I was young, young man, I like all that stuff.
And uh,  uh,  Paul Muni he was uh, well he was a leader, like  you know, the boss.
And like he wanna get you bumped off, he don't do it hisself.
He gets somebody else to do it for him.
And Joe ???
foolish ?
pistol, he's up there, like, up where he do.
Mm-hm.
Now, know  Al Capone?
Well now, he a- he died a natural life.
He live in Miami Florida.
I- now I saw his home.
Miami beach, that's right.
I was chauffering then all them  years ago.
Yeah the White House, like you see, the white- the white house down there on Pennsylvania Avenue, that's where he live at, Al Capone.
Wearing twenty-five dollar shirts in the penitentiary.
Twenty five dollar, like your shirts you got on, twenty five dollars.
No I'm just saying, I know.
Am I talking too loud?
I don't know I just-  I- I- I- I- I- I never been, you got a good gift of gab, you know.
I can know a few things Only thing about me  is  my eyes are bad.
I broke two pair of glasses but I put 'em in a hip pocket.
Just  but still having the case,  well like you have in your pocket.
I had put 'em in my hip pocket, sat on 'em, break 'em.
Now this is my third eye, actually they good.
M- yeah.
Uh-huh.
I mean I can see ordinary but I mean like we just ya know  it gets blurry, you know, too long, you know.
No I can read very good.
Oh!
Dogs,  and cats.
Oh, well  Well one of 'em was named Vanilla, that's my little kitten.
Oh, shucks.
Wasn't nothing- no, it wouldn't-won't bigger than this here, you know.
I used to play with it, and wrestle with it, and everything like that.
I was- I was probably about  I say about nine years old.
Then I like chickens.
Then they had chickens, in- in- in the same city limit Washington DC you were allowed to have pets, you know like a chicken in your yard and what not like that.
Mm-hm.
But no, not now, I mean- I mean that was then.
Goats and everything.
Horses?
Yeah, but I go- can't ride 'em, I'm scared.
I'm allergic to a horse.
I don't know why.
But I- I will catch him by his, you know, by his  foot,  something like that.
Aw, but I- I- I can't get on his back.
Now, what else you want to know?
I used to take a- uh, huh?
Well I was talking about a bicycle.
They get a three wheel bicycle.
One wheel in front, two wheels behind.
I used to break it down and call it a racer.
Well like you- likely to be a lot  like you know, with the old empty cars, something like that.
I get behind that- like to drive    they ain't go nowhere, just- just,  fooling with the wheel  then I wound up being a good driver  after about  thirty one years.
\Ad And that was, not this- this- but it's June now, but last year.
Never had a mark on my permit, nothing.
Not even stop a si- uh, stop sign.
Just,  you know just uh  well, just  they got lights now you know.
Yeah, before they had stop lights you couldn't hardly see 'em  especially if you was in the country, or Maryland, Virginia, what not.
But anyway  never had no marks, but no points there not yet anyway, but different  now.
I was in teenage then I remember one time I stole a Model T Ford!
Yeah!
A Model T got the  pretty little pedals you know.
where the viaduct is and uh  me and three more other guys together you know.
You know how devilish boys are.
So we say, I wanna ride- wanna ride in that automobile.
cause it would be- where I was living back then-  uh six twelve con- er- uh  e- L Street.
Uh.
Garage around another  out of tune or something  I like going and tinkering something, banging on something, something like that, you know.
Mechanical in-  inclined, I don't know what I was doing, but anyway I was, yeah whatever.
That's why I come up like that.
Broyeah!
So  then we put the bicycle down.
Am I walking too fast?
I mean I mean talking too fast?
Uh  then we had um   excuse me.
A bicycle see,  break it down.
And they make a racer.
They go and like uh  and maybe a little girl behind you  who get on-  put your head on his shoulder,  ride.
Oh that was so fun.
Now I'm an old man.
I can't walk to the end of the block hardly.
I can make it, I mean but you know I just-  lot of things I see today, like this guys doing now, I mean youngsters what not  we never had nothing like that.
Mm-mm.
You know whatever  they go to store now,  and- and- the guy had uh  a little basket of apples around here, that pick up a apple like that.
And he gonna tell your mother.
And you get a whipping, better not tell the father, cause the father whip you again.
And he whip you, but now you can't touch a child.
He gonna tell you, you're not my father, you're not my mother,  you know?
It's different.
We didn't do nothing like that.
No, sir.
Not nothing like that.
But it's- it's a funny thing, it's  I don't know.
Right now you know I'm scared to go out in the street at night time?
I ain't looking for nothing but I mean, seeing is- someone stop to help you, you don't know what's happening you gotta walk you gotta look around.
And in the day time.
Hm?
Yeah goodness.
Eh- do you know what it is, catch a guy that's got money  they catch the guy that don't have no money.
Then when you don't have no money, well they whip you now, cause you don't have it.
So there you go .
That's the- that's the God's truth, okay.
Now,  what else?
When I went to school?
What did I major in, or what?
I ain't no major in nothing in particular but this  ordinary common sense, I put it that a way.
I'm a good writer.
I can write.
No, I ain't no- no.
What about History you mean?
Now you call me back now, I don't know too much  way back now, let me see.
Uh.
I had um  RD-NAME-2  That was uh  yeah that was  First and uh L.
I was at Jones school, where there's a little white thing at  probably air conditioner with the corner over by that school now That was Jones school that didn't, First Street right here.
Where we at right now?
Yeah.
That was bound to go in.
First Street and K.
Still a school up there now, but I mean- it's- it's no concern what building it was.
Young boys, uh, ??
what they- by the police car, and another building next to it.
Anyway, we're there at the Jones, RD-NAME-3,  RD-NAME-3.
I was in Seven B then After I went to Armstrong.
I told you I didn't go to Dunbar.
Cause I had to be Miss So and So and So and So and So.
Oh you had to  well, say, they had a preference there.
You know you gotta be a doctor's son or doctor's daughter or what not.
Well I'm the uh, working man now.
And well, then what you- you can rent there if you're qualified now.
But I- that was why they did't want you in particular.
So I went to the Armstrong School to learn a trade.
Now  uh  like History, and uh I forget now.
Lot of things.
I'll tell you some of the things, but it may be back-  further back than you would choose.
Um  I can't ever seem.
You see when you uh, you ask a person a question,  you got to think, you know.
When I come in, somebody walk in this house, oh, how are you feeling?
well that's hard.
I get to the next halfway the block I said  I think I seen that fella somewhere before you know.
Then it come to me, they down there, you know on ???
you- you- round the corner now you know?
That's the way it goes.
Got out?
When the school let out?
Alright.
I'll put like it this here, second to third grade.
Cause I skipped the first grade, I never went to Kindergarten.
first grade first, then first to the third.
That's how much I had up here.
RD-NAME-3, I had.
I had uh RD-NAME-3, then I had a RD-NAME-2 behind that.
Then Miss  um  RD-NAME-3  All the women teachers.
Uh, RD-NAME-3 was the principal.
They had over at the Jones school, the  same old school up on L street and First street.
Mm-hm.
I was sitting on that side, on that side  across from what do you call it there?
Terrell?
That high school over there.
But wasn't nothing like that then.
There's houses all through there now.
Uh-huh.
Well I did go to school.
They give me a big pickle,  sour pickle piece of ??.
Took down in there  that was my lunch.
Yes, sir.
Now from- from school, it was direct home.
Then I had to, you know, tend to the house chores like  cut wood or bring the coal in from the, you know, from the yard.
Then I ask, could I go out?
And I was seventeen years old, I didn't know what a girl was.
I kn- I knew they was a girl, but I mean you know.
Well actually- no, no, what?!
They say, he's a little boy!
and I'm a big old dude.
I'm bigger than I am now.
Seventeen years old, that's right.
So now, what else?
Oh RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-3 Well uh  we had uh- had the same corner that uh  well it was a pageant.
Well no it was a play.
That was at uh  well see there's Tenth and U Street.
Now this is years now.
See I was a youngster now.
Now, I'm- I'm up in my teens now see.
And uh  sh- uh cause Duke Ellington's band then in that time.
I didn't know where they live   And I didn't sleep with that lady.
RD-NAME-3  I know her la- I know it was RD-NAME-2 was her last name.
RD-NAME-3.
Uh my teacher, I used to keep me at the school, after everybody- all kids go home.
I got to stay up there with her.
And I used to kiss her and everything like that.
Yeah, I was a young boy.
Yeah!
I was something, oh man I was terrible.
But I didn- I- no, I know, was just ??
I don't understand it.
It's alright Now, when it had this play up at Tenth and U  Pythian Temple, that's what is name of the place.
Used to be a  Club pool what do you call it, years ago  anyway.
I went up there,  and I saw her.
I don't know what-  what dawned on me, but I s- know that lady.
And she said, RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2?
That's me.
I had a look around  I don't know no RD-NAME-2.
Forgot my own name.
That was her, her and her husband.
And we danced together.
After I got to be a young man.
Now, I got ideas, now, you know.
Ask for a date.
Oh yeah.
And we did.
She's oh my!
I hear you've grown!
you know, like that.
I'm a big boy now you know.
Huh?
Huh?
Uh, not that- the same night.
I mean, but I had made arrangements to phone her and what not like that.
Then uh we got together.
She say, I wouldn't have ever thought of this yesterday, but I used to kiss you when   and made love.
Yeah.
I wouldn't- I wouldn't- I wouldn't now, if I see her, I wouldn't know her right now if I see her.
Happened so many years ago so.
Hard to know.
Aw, twenty or th-  twenty five, maybe thirty years ago.
I don't know about you, but uhhh I was a big old boy.
I'd eat like a horse.
Now I eat a slice of bread probably and have a cup of coffee something like that, that's all.
Oh, RD- NAME-3 was one.
The one that- in the Jones school.
First and L  What did she do?
What made me angry was she cracked a couple of my knuckles.
With a- with a ruler, you know, like a rule-?
That's way they did that in them days.
Then they say, oh, you take a knuckle home, you carry a note home to your parents.
Then you get another whipping.
That's right.
So,  but she was the teacher you know.
But I don't sit down and look at no TV or  picture, something like that, nothing like that.
I'm here to learn!
Well  course your knuckles was hit with a ruler.
I was a big ol' boy, crying  I was crying like this, you know.
Unintelligible honest to goodness, I really did learn.
Excuse me.
No, I's- I's a-  I have brought her apple,  like that,  but I never played no tricks, nuh-uh  no.
No tricks.
I didn't.
No, I didn't.
But I wo- I would share the-  then I tell you what happened.
Boys wear their hair uh  skinhead?, you know.
Like used to call it a mammy haircut.
Your mother cut your hair with the scissors.
You going to school like that too, they had these patches on they pants.
You know, and uh patch.
Yeah.
So  I used to go   throwing spit balls.
They look,  they got to be rid of them, bald heads you know.
That was fun then, you know.
But otherwise it's-  I don't do anything too bad I don't know ???.
I got locked up but I ???
quit-  drinking though so maybe a little drunk.
Tryna to make it home something like that, but  you know all that kinds of stuff.
As old as I am.
Oh it wasn't so bad.
But all I'm saying now I just can't get around like I used to.
Leg had been busted two times in football.
Yeah I used to be a hundered and ninety eight pounds, man.
I was too big for my heigth, you know, cause See I'm not as tall as you are.
Cause you weight about  a hundred and,  ooh, I'll say a hundred and eighty is alright for you- you got the heighth you know.
Unintelligible.
You do?
But you solid though.
Yeah.
That's what I- yeah.
Well six feet two, huh?
That's good, nice heighth.
I wish I was your heighth.
Me?
I'm about five eight and a half.
A hundred and sixty five, b- b- bu- between a hundred and sixty five and seventy two.
But uh  if I was your heighth man,  oh my goodness.
I go and whip bunches of guys around my weight.
Big ghetto?
old man like me, know what I say?
oh there go Pops.
Cause I get a little grey hair down here, you know, or a little bit up here.
I said, boy, respect them grey hairs though.
Come up- s- I come up- come up- come up-  I come up the right way and  the poor people that brought me in  a right way, you know?
She's telling all us kids to school as far as you could.
All of us.
Every one of 'em.
I'm the dumbest thing in the whole bunch.
That's right.
I almost didn't- I almost can tell-  before you say I want you to tell what's happening.
I- I- what kind of- I- I- what kind of mind is that  sposta be?
I don't know.
I ain't no  when them kind of thing like that up?
You know what I'm talking- you- you- explain it better than I can can't you?
I- I- mean it's nice talking to you cause- huh?
Oh I ain't nothing now.
I'm a- No, I ain't know no guys.
That's the only   See he live in the same house I live in.
Oh,  uh that- that- goes right there.
Well he my buddy, he call me p-  son you know.
But I mean he's  nice neighbor.
But I just speak  by myself all the time, I don't be with nobody.
No sir.
Now, my wife, m- we seperated, uh,  I'm going into the family affairs now.
Oh, say about sixteen years,  tried it four times.
It's no more,  but we  like you and I do it, now she-  what's your name?
Waldo?
Waldo.
RD-NAME-2 is mine.
Hey.
Like I said, oh well how are you?
You know.
Oh boy, what not, you know  That's the way I am, with her, right today.
And her boyfriend, too.
Yeah.
Everybody live better than me, I ain't had nothing.
You know this gentleman here called RD-NAME-2?
Uh  he knew us way way back years ago.
See,  but he has changed.
Yeah, he's a preacher now.
So now you- I go to church every now and then, but I ain't ready yet.
See I ain't gon- I say before I die, want to be a preacher.
And I can talk!
Am I worrying to death?
But I mean- no, I'm not kidding but uh  uh, d- but like I s- but I- I- I- really I- see I always down sit in the chair after church and talk to boys after twelve o'clock you know?
And uh, just different little thing we used to do years back and, they remind me of something you know.
Once you come on and chat, say when I get ready.
I say- cause I say I want to be a preacher before I die.
I want to be it.
But if I get to be a preacher,  then I'm ready to die!
I ain't ready to die yet!
Excuse me, I'm loud, ain't I huh?
Oh man I- Uh, we had one boy down in North,  uh, the ?
Street down here  and uh  he just spoke- speak a little Spanish.
But I never, I didn't learn no kind of language.
No, uh-huh.
Which guys here?
White?
Oh, all of 'em.
My bosses.
Before I even quit the man, I- I- I'd move sections.
Man running behind me, acts like I was- my mother used to work for his father!
And it-  minding my business like you- he's a Jewish  fella, but  damn niggers, damn niggers  Come on boy, say my heart bleed for you.
What you mean when your heart bleed for me?
Cause I was drinking.
Don't nobody know what I had on my mind, but I'm just saying.
Good man.
See I'm a dry cleaner.
I mean I take care all the machinery work, anything what?
That's all I want is- all I want to do man.
I take your  make it turn- turn it pink.
Oh, oh, I'm-I'm-I'm loud isn't I, huh?
Talking about, I think we got a bottle back here.
But I mean, I just enjoy talking to you, you know I just- Mm-hm.
And uh not now I   we had one fellow around the little New York Avenue.
He was a white fellow.
He can't walk too-  too good you know.
So I come by,  be looking for him.
You know.
And uh, I don't go in the house though.
I've been in the yard, sat on the porch and have a drink with him.
He send me to the store.
Go over there, he give me five dollar, ten dollar, twenty dollar, whatever it is just to come back  Count your money, now.
These kid steal.
I don't know why.
That's why I don't have nothing against him.
Can't do it.
I mean any- anybody over it  anybody will shi-  Pick up something but I mean e-  like them guy go and look for something like that, and grab people, I can't do that.
Oh, if I haded to live my life over again?
Probably not o- ah-  sitting here.
I'd be owning the whole building.
Cause I supposed to be in business for myself, but I just messed up- then I was an entertainer.
That's where I got so much-  maybe a little g- gift of gab.
Sing.
No.
it was New Orleans jazz.
And a little blues.
Mm!
That kind of stuff.
Them sounds man, yeah!
Wait a minute.
Now you got the other stuff now, they got the you know the s-  the soul songs.
I'd- I'd- now I like 'em too now!
But I mean I'm just saying what I was doing that time.
We had a   washboard,  kazoo, little horns you blow through like that b-b- cost about five cents.
Had one of them  And had a guitar and a piano, and then they had a bass.
I add the bass player, and I went to play ??.
Yeah.
And that's really- we're called the Washboard Blues.
This lady l- that same one that stuck her head in the door, she knew who I was.
That's right.
Oh yeah.
I've been on uh  Art Brown had the kiddie program, that was down on F Street there, between uh  oh I say Twelfth, Thirteenth street over here.
And uh  you heard- you heard i- I know you heard of him call him uh  What is his name?
Unintelligible program too.
Um  Arthur Godfrey.
Alright, now he's in Virginia, that's his home.
He got his own station and everything like that- I imagine- that's what I heard, but years ago.
Well him and I was-  was all us, we had a thing called  Going Native  in Washington DC, all Washington talent.
We was only colored boys on that thing.
That was the Fox Theater, but now it's- it's uh  Capital Theater, you call it, on F Street you know.
Call it Capital.
But now I- I didn't.
Then it was the Fox Theater.
They- they would- Arthur Godfrey.
He was the Master of Ceremony, and what not of one of these shows.
Just like uh, Art Brown, with the kiddie program, well he had a thing called Going Native every year.
Had a show down at Fox Theater.
Now it's Loew's Capitol now, that's what it is.
Arthur Godfrey.
Great man, he wouldn't know who I was.
walking up to see him, get to talking about it,  then it'll come to him.
I could tell him exactly what he did on the stage and everything.
Yes sir!
I w- Oh yeah.
Being there- being there now, I mean anywhere  But I mean then he was, sort of like you would be, you know, ordinary coming up.
Tryna get together, what happened.
The ideas he has then,  with people getting today, together now today.
But he had a good idea- mixing the colored and the white together.
That's what he had.
And we were so good  til  they had to fold us then,  I mean from Washington group,  there was some other couple of  outfits over there from out Southeast but  we have to know.
Got it.
That was the Washboard Blues.
Now me running my big mouth off.
Unintelligible  Boarding house is falling down.
Huh?
Oh yeah.
I got some stuff home now.
Excuse me  Uh  you know like ?
memorandum too, but I mean  just little sketches you know, little jokes and what not like that.
Original, what I had  figured out my own self.
All nice and clean, no more- no messy stuff.
You say it anywhere, put it that way.
You can say it in church.
Now.
Yeah I got it on.
All that kind of stuff.
I just-  Sometime I get to myself- you ought to see me when I go to the bathroom, man I feel it   you might think I'm crazy in there, you know, cause I be humming to myself.
And I better not hear no piece on that radio like an old time song, you know.
Man I had a fit.
Oh yeah.
Now there's this stuff they playing now, you all call it uh rock and roll, whatever it is.
You ain't got but two, three words, you about, about eight bars.
The whole song is eight bars.
When I was doing our numbers,  we was- I mean  it was different.
You had to get that melody.
Wasn't no jive, like it is now.
All you get's hollering.
AH!
oo.
WA!
you know.
Don't say anything.
Well you had to come up with a re- real melody then, son.
That's right.
Oh yeah.
I can't do nothing now.
I still can do my number though.
Now what else you want to know about them uh youngster days now if you want to hear my younger days.
Well now, you ain't no psychologist are you?
You psyching me now.
No I mean- I won't- and I'm'a- out- I just out- try to out talk you, I got enough to tell you- talking to you, but I mean, I like to enjoy the conversation.
Because uh you know uh-, you go ???
right now- now I know a guy right now, and all he want is a bottle.
Okay.
Well, that's- that's nice.
Some day you gonna get away from that stuff.
Now I got about two,  no one, two,  well another guy, a third guy.
Now I meet them guys and they had a fit because you-  you talk some in common, you know.
The other guys-  well you know  sixty cents.
I don't want to hear that stuff man.
Well get away from it!
My environment is very good but  people that you hang out with, most of my life is entertainment world.
But  Yeah.
But now, all I know that the older guy wanna  they get- they get a box that got all them custom thing ??
them girls.
Talk out of turn man.
Wife and all of em.
I'm scared of 'em man.
I'm scared- more of them than I am you.
What?
No I'm just saying, you know, you know.
Man that woman is double trouble.
No, I'm just saying you know,  well I mean more so than a man.
But, but she very nice.
I remember that girl.
I was only- no I was nineteen years old then.
She was seventeen.
That's when I married her.
Cause you my buddy, you getting married, I'll getting married too.
I don't know what I was doing.
Just getting married cause you getting married, you know.
And man, I had to work like a dog.
And then,  kids I got now.
My boy's bigger than I am!
Got a nice car and everything.
Buying his home.
You think they see me?
Can't get a stamp from him.
But I still say, Hello Junior, you know.
They'll come see me, but I'm not going to see them.
My daughter, everybody go somewhere else but here   Well, Southeast.
Nice, hard neighborhood,  with the government what not, you know.
See I go and say I want to sleep on your floor, sitting in a chair?
Mm-mm.
But I took it.
I got mine from the ground,  pick and a shovel.
Now you got a machine now.
See I got mine from the pick and the shovel and a wheelbarrow.
She was  my home.
They had a lot of frame houses, nice to get-  keep them warm.
We had no coal.
Go o- over there to the uh-  young man!
I'm talking about.
That was the first child, the next one come,  over there- over there to this  you know where the train?
You know where the train run?
Pick coal lump by lump.
Steal it.
They don't my kids warm.
Not right now, I ain't got nothing.
I'm just saying you know.
I ain't putting no  uh, bad story, and let you  feel sorry for me, but I'm gonna say how I did.
But yeah, the point  because right?
Your mother and father live right now, you could say well  I know I've been gone for five, ten years but  I would drop by, or  send a little postcard or something.
They're ready to left town when they see me.
Four all together.
They go to s-  well I count-  I don't count the other two-  the first two.
They- they grown, you know.
The other one small ones.
They ain't too small, but I mean, you know.
Me?
Have I?
I pray to die.
That's right.
I don't- I have nothing to live for, that's what I figure.
I asked the Lord to take me from this, stop me from drinking.
Everything.
And I told my mother at one time, I says that was  oh I say about six years ago  I didn't want to clamor over them.
Thirteen thirteen I never forget that.
I said, Mama I'm gonna die.
Aw boy, go on, what you talking about?
She still think I'm a boy, you know.
You're never too old for your parents you know?
So I say well uh,  tell everybody,  all my friends, my family, or whatever I've said or done  to forget me cause I'm gonna die.
They- they- they- I'm still living.
Right now.
I'm talking to you, ain't I?
I ask to die.
I asked the doctor in the hospital, uh where was it?
Gallinger it was then, now it's DC General.
I ain't talking about Washington Center, wasn't no Washington Center then, know where the capital place at?
Wasn't nothing like that then.
Anyway over at the DC General I mean Gallinger, then,  and I asked the doctor, g- give me a pill.
What do you mean?
I say, gi- Let me die.
I says, I'm in the room here myself.
Cause I'm in pain and misery.
And when my um  my uh  lung pushing my ribs.
See I used to sit like this here and fall out.
cause I had high blood pressure.
And black out, just like that.
Like I stay up like this you know, like this here?
Keel over like that.
I do it- I don't do it now.
I mean here lately, but  I know, I gotta take the .
I just won't go to the hospital, I won't give in.
I mean, no kidding!
I actually- actually I- I actually need some attention.
You know?
I know, that's what I said!
I- I- that's how I go about to try to look at it.
No I ain't going in there, til I hear 'em singing.
Then, they about go in.
Unintelligible  Boy came in, it was something around eleven o'clock.
WUSDA coming in to broadcast us   I mean I Street.
Unintelligible you know, not your place here.
Nobody- nobody uh  not RD-NAME-2 I mean, uh RD-NAME-5.
But he go over reaches out, touches you and left.
Right there in the middle of the block that's where the church at.
Nice little church.
In the basement.
Yeah, I'd get free work, plenty of girls everything man.
But uh   Mm?
Nice.
But um  Now yesterday, I was laying across the couch when this uh lady come in here uh I can't think of her name I knew her mother.
Of course she's  starting out but sh-  she- she's young you know.
And uh, but she remember me.
Oh Brother RD-NAME-2!
Brother RD-NAME-2.
But I was trying to go some place or  be to a meeting or what not you know just.
Unintelligible you know, she was going on.
And I tell my mother, she was- she old, but I- who wouldn't pay to represent her.
But her last married name was RD-NAME-2, see.
But if I'm there, they-  I mean people know me in the neighborhood,  I'm there.
Otherwise, I'm all by myself.
I don't have nobody now,  with my one ?
money.
I got sisters and brothers going in the street like this here And nieces and nephews, good God Almighty.
But uh  the idea about it, see I just uh-  now my brothers make about eight uh, eight uh, eight sixteen.
You know I don't know who to send to this here?
I ain't got don't have but one one brother.
But I'm just saying.
Brother's gonna ask you for so-  I'll try to  give you something.
You know?
Well, after you walk the street right now, anytime I'll see you  I say, I seen that fella before.
Ain't nobody gonna bother you there.
I mean not, if I- if I'm around, I'm gonna get in there too.
Yeah!
Look here wait a minute, let me finish talking now.
I'm'a talk you to death now.
Um  I was born here in Washington DC.
Course it's still a country, you know.
Uh  And I'll give you my background about the  younger days up-  little bit of it, you- you follow me, didn't you?
But I didn't give you all the- all the- you know, the  fundamental points, but I gave you enough to  to carry on, you know.
Put that away.
Uh  like I said, I started in the first grade  and from there I jumped from first to third.
got a good memory.
But I forget sometimes, too, getting old now see?
When I get as old as you are, then I forget to shut up see?
Well anyway,  anyway uh  well that's where I went to school, and like I say it was hard and so forth,  years  And I wasn't in my teen I was in my twenties then.
And um  we had a little fun but  but then I sit down sometimes myself and think about them things you know.
Now my environemnt's actually it's no- it's not bad.
I mean far as I'm concerned.
I don't go for uh- uh-  well I take care of myself, I mean I try.
Th- my friends too.
Whether they're right or wrong, I say, come on buddy  buddy come on.
Man leave 'em alone.
Man, leave 'em alone.
But I ain't gonna worry unless  I just worry about me me.
By being careless.
Not careful.
Careless.
Now, you follow me?
Man!
I could sit there all day long and talk you to death.
Oh-  so anyway, I ain't give you a chance to say nothing here.
Anyway so  uh, that's why this here uh  uh  forget this girl's name.
She can't even get- got me, because she says I'm a good talker.
He's one too, but see, he gotta have a taste before he can talk.
I can talk without anything.
Just gifted like that.
I ain't talking no-  am I talking foolish talk?
Thank you.
You got it all down on record, have you?
I got the mic on me.
Huh?
Oh, Lord have mercy!
Well anyway, uh nice to meet you Mr.