Ten years old?
Marbles,  uh,  mm,  I don't know I guess m-  Baseball, uh- uh- some basketball, uh,  uh, Hide and Go Seek.
Ten years old.
Uh-  n-  um- Mm-hm.
Marbles?
We- we played- I played quite a  bit of marbles.
I  considered myself- Oh!
Horseshoes!
I played quite a bit of horseshoes at that age.
Um, marbles.
I thought  uh,  was one of my best games at that time, yes.
Mm-hm.
Well, we drew a circle, and uh,  I think you had to knock out the-  j- break the pile- break the bunch, and then you uh,  knocked out individual  marbles, that you wanted.
Eh- as I remember.
Now, this is- been quite a little while ago, so I don't uh-  I had a favorite.
Pardon?
Marbles were inside the circle, yes.
Mm-hm.
Uh, there were um-  they always had a favorite  uh,  shooter.
Uh- uh-  and I remember having favorite marbles that I tried to keep you know, when I put 'em in the ring.
But other than that, I don't remember  too much about  um- No, I remember it was blue.
It- and it sparkled.
Yeah , but other than that, I don't remember.
I can't remember, no.
Yes, I did have a uh-  seems I did have one particular one that uh,  was uh,  sort of a  China type  marble, but I and here again I don't remember what we- I called it  at that time.
It was very important to me at the time, but I don't remember now what it- just what it was.
No, I don't remember anybody using those.
No.
Oh.
Is that right?
No- Yeah!
Oh yeah.
I do remember hearing that, but I don't remember the significance of it.
I didn't remember the significance of it.
Mm-hm.
Well, we played that quite a bit, now.
I lived in um,  two areas of Washington.
One uh, in the Anacostia area  and also in the Northwest near Sibley Hospital off of- off Capital Street.
And in Anacostia, of course, you played it one way.
You had uh, open woods.
You had uh,  houses um,  apart.
You can go around the houses and around the garages and the sheds and what have you.
And big trees to hide behind, but in uh,  course, living in town, you  hide- hid behind automobiles and um,  in the alleys, and  um,  under the steal  steps uh, you know, the iron steps.
We had iron steps on our house.
And-  in that general area.
I think uh,  most of the houses had the iron stairways and the vestibules.
Up in the uh  area where you's going into the uh,  basement.
And uh,  oh, we had these couple of big apartment houses and-  that had many little shoots where the- had coal and what have you.
We could hide around the behind the- yeah .
But um,  at uh, I don't know- We had a paper  plant somewhere near  North Capital and Elm,  and uh,  they had skid boxes or skids.
Things of that sort in that area, and we used to use those for  uh, hiding behind and what have you.
Mm-hm.
Well, first you um,  I don't remember exactly how we decided who-  I think we had to race for a  tree.
You race for a tree, and uh,  whoever hits the tree first is  it.
And then after the um,  this beginning,  um,  the person hides their  eyes or the-  close their eyes against the tree  and counts to  twenty one, I believe.
Or ten.
I don't remember the number.
And then um,  from there, you  would proceed to  try to locate  or try to find the  individuals  that are hiding.
While you uh, holding- closing your eyes.
And of course, uh, if you can make it back to the tree,  I- I might be wrong.
But I'm- d- I'm- This is vague.
Um,  if you make it back to the tree before the person that uh,  um,  you find,  you um,  that person will be it next time.
In other words,  uh, he's out.
And uh, if this is the- as I said- this is a-  long time ago since I played it.
Mm-hm.
Um, most  of the time, as far as I can remember, uh,  it was more fun to hide than it was to be it.
But uh, of course, some people didn't mind as much as others, if I can remember, but uh,  it wasn't a s-  stigma or anything of that sort.
You just tried not to get caught.
more or less.
Mm.
No.
Uh, no, I can't remember that, you know, we might have, but- but- you know, on different occasions but I don't remember.
I think it was most of the time, it was racing for the- uh, tree, or lamp post, or  whatever the object was that we used for  base.
Mm.
No.
Well I played quite a bit of basketball in uh,  my  growing years.
We used to play in a  little park up in- on New York Avenue.
New York and uh  First Street.
And we um,  played  baseball and, we weren't supposed to, but we played baseball.
And then we um,  we played baseball in the parking lot behind the paper uh, place.
And then we played it on the playground.
And then uh, we'd j- I competed for track, and I think for awhile boxing was quite a thing.
Um,  twelve, thirteen, I think uh, we went through a period of uh,  learning how to box at that time.
We had some money- um,  Mighty Mel I think was uh quite active at that time.
And he used to uh,  train.
He was in a wheelchair himself and he used to train young fellas to box.
He has one very famous boxer here, uh,  Mugsy Hersey.
Um,   you heard that name, but anyhow.
Quite a few people trained under him,  and he used to go around to the different playgrounds, and  I remember  getting socked in the eye,  something of that sort several times.
I didn't particularly like boxing too much.
However, I did  uh, practice quite a bit or go up and train.
Be- Use the uh,  medicine ball I guess you call it.
And it uh, strengthened the muscles in your stomach.
And then I did a little tumbling, and  little later years, I had a couple friends that were interested in tumbling, and uh, we  used to tumble.
I had quite a few trains, and um,  and  I made aeroplanes and things of that sort.
I can remember doing that through the years.
Uh,  trains and aeroplanes, and  we made the planes out of the balsa wood.
Things of that sort.
Well it did, and it got quite expensive and crazy .
But um,  generally, we had  uh, kites.
I can remember playing with qu- quite- kites  quite a bit.
And um,  we had an area down on um,  right on Anacostia River  that uh, we  did quite a bit  as far as kite flying and  things of that sort.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Occasionally.
Yes, mm-hm.
Mm- I don't- Well, I was watching Ironside there for awhile.
I used to watch Perry Mason,  uh, regularly.
I haven't watched that for quite some time now.
I don't even know when it's on now.
Uh, now we have the comedy shows.
Jonathan Winner- Winters, that uh, I watch mainly because uh, someone else is watching them and I happen to be there.
Um,  the uh-  overall, I don't  um, have a program that I have to see every week.
I used to, at one time.
Gun Smoke and things of that sort.
But uh, now I maybe watch about three hours of television a week at the most.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
That's right.
No, um,  in uh,  I remember one Alfred Hitchcock  but uh, well, that was I thought it was interesting because of the um, irony in the  show.
I don't know whether you remember seeing this or not but it was case of a  woman who,  her husband happened to be a police man .
I don't know why I remember this one so well, but her husband happened to be a police man.
And um,  he came in, and um,  he was leaving his wife  for some reason or another, and his wife  very uh,  um,  plainly, or  d- very- just  solemnly  prepared his dinner.
And then uh,  preparation of his dinner, she got a lamb- frozen lamb leg out of the  freezer.
And he was talking to someone on the telephone telling them that he was going to meet them,  and she  evidently hit him over the head with the lamb leg.
And when the-  his  co-workers, other policeman, came to investigate the case,  um,  she-  they couldn't find the murder weapon.
But,  they sat down and ate lunch  or dinner,  and they were eating the  evidence.
They were eating the mur- murder weap- murder weapon!
So, uh I do remember that one.
Now, something else I- I- I like westerns, uh, generally.
But I see 'em and forget 'em generally.
It's just for relaxation.
I find that westerns are the most relaxing of uh- mm.
Takes you out of the realm of reality so to speak.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, that's- it's gruesome, isn't it?
Mm-hm.
Yes, I saw um,  uh, Guns of San Sebastian, uh, I- Um, that was story of a  bandit I guess, in those days, uh,  that was befriended.
He was injured.
He was being chased by the Mexican  police I believe.
Um, Mexican  Guard or police,  and uh, he was injured.
And he was-  went into a church.
He rode his horse into a church to  um,  for looking for a sanction, and uh,  a priest, an old priest, befriended him.
And um,  they wanted the-  the police- the authorities wanted the bandit  back, and the priest wouldn't  uh, relinquish him because of the  sanctuary- sanctuary-  of the church.
And uh,  finally, they exiled the pr- the old priest to a  area way out in the middle of the desert somewheres, but uh,  with the name San Sebastian.
And um,  the um,  priest was killed almost immediately as soon as he got there, and  the  people of the area  were  being uh,  victimized, I guess, by the  uh-  combination of the Indians and by someone else in the area that uh, was-  would take their uh, crops as soon as they were harvested.
So they looked  to the church for leadership.
And uh, by this time, actor Tony Quinn, uh, who happened to be the bandit,  uh, was, um,  thought to be the priest, and he was of course  uh, far from a priest.
And uh, he showed the people how to uh,  build.
He liked being called a priest.
He liked being looked up to, so consequently, he fell into the-  After  trying very hard  to get out of it, supposedly, uh, he decided to uh,  try to teach the people how to live, how to de- defend themselves.
And through hook and crook, he managed to get uh,  dams built and the s- crops harvested,  and um,  of course, there was a love scene here and there, in there, with uh,  Tony Quinn.
And uh, finally, um,  I think he got-  He blackmailed the governor, through his wife, to give them guns and when the  Indians and the bandits came back in to attack them this time, he was prepared to defend the  town.
And of course, it has a happy ending.
The b- the band- the uh, authorities were still looking for him, and he wasn't able to stay in the town.
They still chased him out of town, but - But I thought that was very interesting.
I have- the most recent film that I saw was um,  uh,  Capote's um, In Cold Blood.
Yeah, this left me kind of cold.
But uh-  Uh, well, um, it- it- I had mixed emotions about it.
It- it-  you felt sorry for the individual, one individual, but at the same time, you- you could see so many things in the,  a family, that knowing, when they close their  shades at night and lock their doors, just put-  having no idea what  was in store for them.
And uh,  so you had- I had mixed emotions about it.
I th-  thought that the man who did the murdering was  completely sick.
Course, this was supposed to have been taken from a true story, and you wonder how much Hollywood had to do with the uh,  glorifying the individuals that uh,  perform the murder.
So I d- I uh,  I'm still thinking about that moment.
Uh-huh.
Yeah I did, too.
Yeah, it- it- it's- Uh, I think the book is a little uh,  more descriptive, much more descriptive,  than the movie.
Of course, they couldn't show a lot of the things that they  um,  it was g- very gruesome  uh, in the book.
The description of the um,  bodies and just what they did do,  and the  movies of course, glazed over top of that  to-  to a certain degree.
Yeah.
I don't do as much reading as I used to.
I used to read quite a bit.
I liked um,  Kenneth Roberts, uh,  and I liked also um,  Frank Slaughter,  the MD that, you know, wrote about Fort Everglades, and I think he  written several modern novels about doctors and what have you.
I don't know why I'm  interested  in um,  I think it's the life and the excitement of-  that you see, or that you hear about in the books.
And I of course, I knew  too many doctors that don't have that type of excitement, you know.
But, uh, of course, there's just a-  I-  his description  was very vivid, and um,  I liked his work very much.
Have you ever read any Frank Slaughter?
Mm.
You haven't?
Huh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes, I have a  small mutt.
Um,  well he's actually, he was supposed to have been a cocker when we got him, but  immediately when I noticed there's three colors.
Uh,  very rarely do you see a cocker with more than  two colors.
Matter of fact, I've never heard of a cocker with more than two colors.
But uh, he's been with us for twelve years.
Uh, he's like part of the family now.
Mm-hm.
Thirteen?
Is that right?
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Skippy.
He's- knows how to play ball, and  uh, shake.
He jumps through the hoop.
He can- He's smart little dog for- and I think this is maybe because he is a mutt that he's so smart.
But he has quite a lot of um,  sense for a little dog.
And he's very small.
Uh, not more than  ten or twelve pounds or something of that sort.
And,  he's been a lot of company for the children.
I have two daughters and uh,  he's been a lot of company for the children.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The dog?
Well, uh,  mm, other than,  you give him a bath, and he goes out and  rolls in the dirt.
Uh,  he's an- a number of times,  torn paper of course, out of the um,  trash basket, and his  da- soon- no sooner than you walk into the room, he knows that he's wrong.
And he cowers down and looks up at you with his big eyes, and you can't spank him.
Mm-hm.
But I think he does it sometimes just to get attention.
I really do.
But- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No, he's on um,  um,  m-  dry food diet.
He  uh, eats  Purina's, um,  Purina Dog Chow, I believe,  And he's been eating this now for the last five or six years.
We've tried Gravy Train and a few other things, but he  leaves it, so we go back to the Purina Dog Chow.
My children always uh,  give me a hard time about feeding him the same old thing, but  he eats it, and he seems to be thriving off of it,  so we- Yeah, well he had some kidney damage some years ago.
I don't know.
I think he had some difficulty with his-  one of his glands  and um,  the doctor told us to feed him uh,  dry food because the  beef or meat,  uh,  didn't do his kidneys any good.
So,  from that time on,  we haven't had any difficulty with him eating or with his  other trouble.
Mm-hm.
Um,  vaguely.
We, um-  I went to uh,  James D.
Burnie out in Southeast,  and um,  oh, regular science,  general science, I guess.
The- I remember a history teacher,  third grade, I remember.
I remember some phases of learning to write.
Uh, Geography, and  some of the uh,  general ??.
It's hard right now because uh,  I've helped my children with their homework, and I d- don't know whether some of these things I've learned in school when I was  going to school myself, or one- some of the things that I've helped them with in recent years.
But, I do know that we had Geography, Div- Division, Mathematics, uh,  Handwriting,  Physical Education.
The same  general things that they seem to be having in school now.
Uh, we did concentrate possibly a little more on Handwriting and uh,  maybe I'd- they- I concentrated more because-  my father  very rarely ever, uh  wrote long hand.
He printed most of the time.
And I had a  combination of printing and writing,  and it was very difficult for me in school because the teachers wanted us to  write, and I was  constantly  trying to print like my father, so it was a  a struggle, right straight on through.
Hm.
Yeah.
No.
Mm.
Generally?
Um, well, I was on the  Patrol for awhile.
I can remember that, but uh,  generally, we ran home and changed our clothes, and  started to going into our  general every evening  playing.
Um,  now, do you mean uh- there were a few fights after school.
Um, I can remember that, yeah, um,  on occasion.
Um- Generally.
Something that maybe started in school.
I remember one particular time,  I was sitting in class, and I was leaning back in the chair,  and this was in elementary school.
And,  the guys would uh, trip the back of the chair, and knock the chair from under you, you know.
And I think this particular day, I was caught  w- by someone who kicked the chair out from under me, and uh,  we uh-  the teacher immediately caught me.
And uh, reprimanded me, and I made up my mind, well, I'm'a take care of this after school you know.
And uh, so we  had our little tussle, but, there again, it was general.
By then-  l- later on that evening, by the time we got to the playground, we were  completely over it.
We forgotten all about what we were fighting about.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
But I remember this particular time because we had visitors from uh-  I don't know whether the  s-  s- supervisor or something of that sort was  visiting the school.
And evidently,  I don't remember exactly whether  the supervisor walked in just as  my chair was clipped from under me.
I just  but it was very close to the-  and it was very embarrassing to me and the teacher,  now that I think back on it .
Huh.
Well, my kids say that I'm old fashioned, and uh, I don't really-  I don't know.
Maybe they do, but th- they seem to be a little more-  The type of fighting that we did generally, as far as I could see, was, as I said, uh  taking care of something that you couldn't do during school time, and that was the end of it.
But now, they seem to be a little rougher than we were.
We were just  wanting to, you know,  punch each other and laugh, you know, in the mouth or something, that's it.
But we didn't really want to hurt anybody.
But now, they seem to be-  I don't know whether they learn more from television or just what it is.
But when they fight now, from what I've seen, you know, in riding along after school,  they seem to be a little  more bent on destruction.
Oh.
Um,  yeah.
I-  I've had-  Yeah, I had one that uh, hollered a lot, but now I can't remember  too much about  the teacher.
I did have one that was very very um,  rough spoken, but it was a v- she was a very good teacher.
She was an excellent teacher.
And um, I got a lot from her.
But she- When I say rough spoken, she was v- Her voice was very heavy.
She e- when she lambasted you, she  really tore into you.
But um,  I'm not-  Overall- I can't  remember too much about uh,  individual-  Let- There were certain teachers that I do remember  for certain things.
And um,  I remember I had a grandma teacher that uh,  uh, we d- could never make it.
I- I had to take my homework for my grandma twice  because-   how was it- I think it was a combination of two things.
One thing, uh, it was nine o'clock in the morning, and this particular year  uh, was um, I couldn't seem to make it to school on time.
And that number  two, uh, I think we- Somewhere along the line, we cross  each other.
I crossed her evidently.
But, uh, the second  semester-  I took it from her again, and the second semester,  I had no difficulty- I mean um, I  went right through the course, and uh, we got to be great friends.
And I've seen her since then, and um, we've chatted about  what  you know,  what transpired during the  past ten, fifteen years or so.
Mm-hm.
Um,  n- this particular time, the- the chair incident,  and um,  I remember one other time I was struck by a teacher.
And-   but, um,  here again, I've  seen him since then, and uh,  we get along very nice.
Matter of fact, he reminded of it .
But um, he d- When he struck me, he didn't uh,  hurt me.
I think at that particular time, I needed to be struck.
I was way out of line.
I think I was  playing with the little girl in front of me or something of that sort, and I think he  hadn't  moved me over there because I was in trouble on that side of the room.
And the- this was right the fourth grade.
And uh, I remember him coming over and grabbing me by the shoulder or something of that sort, and sort of pushing me on over the other side of the room, but uh, here again.
I didn't uh, hold any- and I dare not tell my father, or my parents, because uh, uh, that was unheard of in those days.
If the teacher had speaked to- If the teacher spoke to you, you were wrong  regardless of what you- did- you- It could be the teacher that was wrong  but in this case, as far as my parents were concerned, if the teacher spoke to me, I was wrong.
So,  I never said anything that wou- And I  somewhat feel that way to a certain degree now, but if my children-   if the teacher has to speak to 'em, it's because they were generally doing something that the had no business doing.
But- In this particular instance, um, I probably- Now that I think back over it, uh, I might have reacted  myself in a little different way.
I might have done little more than he did.
But uh, I was disrupting his class.
And I realize that now, and I think he took about as much as he could take.
And um, He put a end to it.
Ah, I think the former Grammar teacher that I was just telling you about, um, was very good.
And then I had another History teacher,  in um,  high school  that I liked very much.
And she was a very good teacher.
She was a very effective teacher.
I had an- Algebra, uh,  Geometry, or Algebra or something of that sort-  Must have been Algebra teacher, in uh,  Junior High School that was very good.
I don't know that she could get very much uh,  math over to me, but uh, she was very effective as far as uh,  teaching those who  could comprehend.
But uh- Well I think it's a combination of um,  well,  m- to say, respect or- or- um-  interests that the teacher can uh,  get f- get from the student,  um, this- Sorry- uh- they uh, interest that a teacher can get and the general uh,  um,  display that she prov- uh- puts out- When I say display, I mean the uh,  way she  conducts her class generally.
Uh, the discipline.
I think discipline is a very important part of a  classroom.
Now, when I say discipline, I don't mean um,  the- what I was speaking of earlier.
I mean  the uh, overall  conduct of the class.
If everybody's eager to learn.
If everybody- if the teacher can  uh, arouse enough interest to keep everybody interested  in the class.
And uh, this way of course- This isn't a form of- of discipline in my opinion.
And uh, I think that this is uh-  Generally  the best teachers that I've had were  teachers that were able to do this.
And I did have several that I can remember very well, that uh-  You didn't have time- You didn't think about doing anything out of the-  Because you did- You were so interested in what she was saying you didn't want to miss a word that he or she was saying.
I had several.
I had a Civics teacher like that.
Uh,  Math teacher, History teacher,  and the former Grammar teacher.
Uh, I think in the case of the former Grammar teacher, I think it was mainly because I was late so much.
I think it was tardiness played a big deal now.
Well   I had the ones as bad as I said.
But sometimes you- you, um-  My interests  were so  uh, varied at that particular time, I didn't uh-  Maybe I should have concentrated a little more in the areas that they were trying to teach   or retained a little more of it.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
There were one or two that I didn't particular like,  but um,  we made it through.
I stayed out of  their way, and uh,  just hoped that they would leave me alone generally , but uh, it wasn't the case for, uh-  I never hated a teacher, as far as I- Or,  disliked a teacher  very, you know, that strongly that  I wanted to be moved out of the class or felt that oh, I've got to go here another day or something.
That's uh, no, I can't remember  any case of that sort.
Mm, no.
No.
No, my-  I remember another- I  always had a problem with tardiness.
I don't know why- well one of the reasons why- I did have to travel quite a ways to uh, school.
And I remember one particular time, this- uh- my section teacher,  used to make us stay  five minutes over- Well, she would make us stay the same length of time over in the evening, for the amount- length of time that we were tardy in the morning.
And I had been so tardy several times, and uh  so  this particular morning,  and I saw the principal,  as I was coming into the school, running to get into school on time.
And uh, I said, uh,  good morning, Doctor RD-NAME-3.
And uh,  the um-  When I got into the classroom, I was still two or three minutes late, and the teacher wanted to know why I was late  for class  before school,  and I told her I stopped and had a conversation with the principal.
So uh,  she wanted to know what the conversation- I said, well we stopped and a had a few words, and I didn't want to go into detail as to just what happened.
So finally, um, she got it out of me, just what the conversation was about.
And I told her, well, I stopped and said good morning, so-  So she thought that was quite uh, something.
She carried me to the principal's office and uh,  she thought, well, you know.
This is one of the books, so you better here this one.
And I think I was given a very stern warning that if it ever happened again that-  Yeah.
Well.
Um,  I was never- Well yes, I guess so.
Uh,  we- we- There was several of us that went around together.
I had  several friends that I carried all the way from- Well, when I say, I carried, we  carried each other all the way from elementary school all the way through,  and um,  we went around together in the kindergarten, first grade, and I think when I got in about in,  the  third or fourth, one  uh, fella and his brother and what have you, moved away  and I was thrown in to with an- thrown into another group.
And we went around together for  um,  number of years all the way through high school, matter of fact.
And there were three or four of us that  stayed together.
We'd- we'd go swimming together.
We- we would go, uh-  We play basketball together in the evening.
We uh-  I guess you'd call it uh- s- uh- Well maybe it's  our gang, so to speak.
Uh, um,  we um,  played whatever games we played.
We went to the movies together.
We went to the circus together.
I never will forget one particular time.
Um,  this-  Two or three of us went to circus on Sunday afternoon, and uh,  I think we left the house around twelve o'clock.
And I came back around ten,  my father was waiting for me.
He had been all over the neighborhood looking for me.
And uh- and th- I th- I don't remember exactly how old I was.
I think I must have been about thirteen,  twelve or thirteen.
And- I know- My father was a  even- My father is an even tempered man, and um,  he uh,  didn't take too kindly to the  idea that I was away from home all day without telling anybody where I was.
And here again now, I can appreciate that , but at that time, I thought he was being very unreasonable.
I was only at the circus.
That's right.
Hm.
Well, um, we had something happen in Anacostia, for instance, that uh- that they built a  project, a um- development.
And uh,  there were a number of fellows that moved into the area-  in to the project at that time.
I d- I don't remember-  This must have been uh,  in the forties.
But anyhow, a- um,  they came in.
There were several of them that played basketball with us, and uh-  W- When I say that I can remember,  nothing happened in Anacostia for many many years, and then they built the project.
And when they built the project, this was  quite an influx of people.
And um, there were a lot of fellows that we did go around with.
We played ball with, and uh,  there were a lot of new girls that came to the school.
Of course, we had- They built- At the same time, they built a project, they built a community  uh, center.
And they used to have dances and- and uh, movies on uh,  Friday night I believe.
Friday or Saturday night.
And it had its good influences in some cases.
In some cases, bad influences, but uh, overall I think it sort of balanced out in some  area.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Um- yeah, one or two of 'em.
Uh, that's- If I can remember, that uh-  Yeah- to the- Yeah.
We did.
One fella in particular, we used to uh-  He came right on in, and we uh-  He went just about everywhere with us for a quite a little while.
Matter of fact, there were a couple in later years, in high school years.
But then, of course, in high school, I drifted away from  the group, as such.
Uh,  my father wasn't much on um,  traveling in crowds,  and uh, never allowed me- He didn't mind  me  going some place uh,  what have you, but he didn't ever  uh, approve- He never approved as far as I can remember up uh,  traveling with a group.
And um, if there more than three or four of us, or more than two of us generally, he had something to say about it.
But um,  if we did go to  you know, games- Or I remember going out to uh,  the Canal,  out to Great Falls, right near Great Falls.
Hiked around Chain Bridge, and we used to rent boats and go boating and things of that sort.
Now this was in high school of course.
I didn't swim that well, but I used to- Several of the fellas that I went around with were very good swimmers.
And uh, they liked horseback riding.
I used to horseback ride too, but uh, th- As I said again, now this was later years.
This was high school.
L- My last year or so in high school, I drifted completely away from them because I went to work for a bookstore.
And uh, and I worked in a book store up until um,  uh, summer.
And then I started college, and I worked.
I went to school during the day time and worked in the evening,  and so uh,  here again, um, I didn't have much act-  time for activity  of the sort.
Then I got married very young, too, so this makes another-  Mm-hm.
M- generally it's just a matter of start hanging around, being on the basketball court when we went out in the evening to play basketball.
Or- We had one fella  that um,  father left him a great deal of- He worked in the evenings.
He lost his mother when he was young, and his  father  worked in the evenings at the Navy yard.
And uh,  he left enough work to do to keep him busy, for- up until twelve o'clock at night I guess, if he did it all by myself.
But mainly, this- I- As I  think about it now, w- probably to keep him out of trouble.
But what we used to is f- three or four of us would go down, and we'd all  pool together and knock out the work, so that we could all go  up and play.
And um,  this uh,  went on for-  And I think this how some of the new fellas got into the group.
We would wanna play basketball, and we needed five or six or  something to  get up a game, so we'd go down and help this particular fella  um, with his work, so that we could go out and play.
Mm.
Um, one un-  one fella I still see occasionally.
He will drive past, or I'll drive past his house.
He's- Matter of fact, he's the uh,  godparent  of my  oldest child,  but uh, we don't visit uh, regularly.
He-  We did for a long time after I was married.
We visited, and uh, matter fact we worked part time jobs together.
He taught me how to paint when I was um,  coming along, and uh,  when um-  In the early years when I was  trying to  buy my first home, uh,  and I needed money.
My wife was home with the children and what have you, and I needed money, and I needed to have some extra money.
So I  called on him to  let me in on some of his extra jobs, and he-  We used to work together doing interior decorating, and uh,  for a long time.
I often kid my  family about, uh,  their uh-  Uncle Russell helping to pay off the-  the second trestle.
But um,  he did, uh- and then right now, I guess, uh, you know, if it was any occasion-  Well, uh,  when I was uh, had uh,  had illness and death in my family, he  um, was one of the first people I  uh, got in t- Well, got in touch with me actually, because I didn't contact him, he contacted me.
So, we still are friends.
But it's just not close as we used to be.
Mm-hm.
Generally, yes.
Uh, that uh-  I don't uh,  uh, have time  for a lot of socializing, but there are a number of  different groups that I  do.
We play cards together occasionally.
Uh,  there's another group that- Sometimes we go to um-  We've gone to concerts together.
My daughters are both interested in music and uh,  we have friends that are interested in music so we  go to concerts to- s- concerts together.
Um,  I have some that like plays, generally.
We might get theater tickets  and things of the sort.
But um,  But I have my poker buddies.
I several fellas that I've been playing poker with uh for  sixteen or seventeen years.
We play maybe once every two or three months or something, uh so generally- generally when we play,  we might play  all night long.
But uh, we still do that, and we do it just as regularly.
We might not call each other for  several  months.
Then all of a sudden, you know, just get together,  smoke a few  whole cartons.
And we- Mm-hm.
Um, one-  uh- Couple- Of course now, in the neighborhood, we have a number that we go back and forth to \ea each other's houses, but uh,  in this particular group, I think we have  two- uh, in the overall circle of group.
Yeah, there are a couple o- uh,  inter-  racial  um, marriages that- In both cases, I think  white husbands and uh,  Negro wives, colored wives.
But um,  generally- Oh, one or two of my coworkers at work- Matter fact, my present uh,  um, director or assistant director  um,  has been a friend of mine for a number of years.
We've been his - We  we have so many things in common.
He's only- His birthday is in the same month as my birthday, and uh,  uh, his oldest child is four days older than my oldest child.
And we joke about this of course, and we have visited back and forth.
And um,  and there's uh,  um, elderly woman that works with me, that uh,  I had been to her house.
She's been to mine, and we  discuss books and  concerts and what have you.
So,  I guess in that  area, of it, you- what you would call um-  I hadn't really thought about it until this day  but, until this day  Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Uh, these- This case, uh, we've been knowing each other so long, I don't think that this is um, factor, that um,  as far as I'm concerned it's not.
I don't know how they feel about it, but I- From all the evidence, it's all-  outward appearances and all.
Well, now, uh, on Elm Street,  we lived on a um,  mixed- racially mixed block.
And uh, I can remember one particular incident, I don't know whether I should go into it here or not, but -