Basketball.
Um  baseball  and  Four Corners.
Played Capture the Flag, uh Hide and go Seek.
You have two teams, and you have  a man guarding a flag,  and  a-  another team try to get your flag,  and  you try to get their flag,  and if you get their flag  and come back safe,  that mean you captured their flag.
Somebody say  um,  somebody stay still and close their eyes, while the other people hide and do.
You say, are you ready?
and then,  while they're hiding you go- you try to find 'em.
And if you-  if you could say, first to last, and if s- catch the first one,  they It.
Um  you have  corners, and  each person is in a block,  and  one person serve the balls and you hit it to different block,  but um  if somebody hit it, and you miss it,  it's another person go to get in your block,  else, you move around to another block.
Uh  basketball games and  Tarzan, and Rat Patrol, and The Felony Squad.
Cause it's fun looking at.
They driving Jeeps on deserts, and  always  capture enemies.
I saw um  movie called  Fastest Guitar Alive.
Cause they was singing real well, and  I like the singing, and I like the guitar that he had.
That guitar that he had,  all he had to do was just press the button a  gun a come out of the guitar, and then he pressed another button and it'll shoot.
No.
I like to go fishing.
Twenty.
Yep, and I caught fourteen Wednesday.
I went today, but I ain't-  I don't go very often cause my mother.
She don't like me down there.
Um  Friday we had this award  day for our basketball team.
We won  eight and lost  two.
Um  English,  Geography, Math,  Science,  and  Wood work,  and  Music.
Um  I like Gym and Wood work the best.
What?
We go out on the basketball court and play basketball.
Some of 'em hang around school for a little while.
Yeah,  in the um  sixth grade.
Um  stop talking.
Sometimes.
Best teacher I ever had was in the first grade.
I used to help her after school, and  she used to give me money,  and I used to um  wash the boards for her,  and every time I break my glasses, she used to pay for 'em.
In the sixth grade.
Sh- she- sh-  she- every time  she think you talking, she'll get mad.
And one day my grandma had to go and see her,  and- and she used to send people home,  and the principal didn't even know it.
Nope.
Yeah.
Play basketball.
Nope.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Just come around and play with us.
Um  basketball player.
I don't know.
See how fast I can get tall.
Play basketball.
Be's on TV and everything.
Serve the stock.
Save it and give it to my mother.
Give most of it to my grandma.
Giving me presents.
Buy new clothes and  make Easter Eggs.
A drum set.
A pool table.
Got two sticks and  nine balls.
And it's-  it's not a big pool table, it's a small one.
Yeah.
One time I was serving papers on a Sunday, these boys was breaking in the machine,  and I was scared.
And  I don't know how they broke in it,  after they broke in it,  they left and they ain't had no tools in their hand.
And they saw me too but,  they ain't seen what I look like.
I don't believe it.
No.