Well, when I was a kid,  really I didn't play too many games.
You know, cause I really wasn't interested in 'em.
Cause there's so many other things around now that um,  besides games.
And they are so far out in suburban areas, you know, the kids around there didn't care too much for playing,  but mostly we went hunting, you know, for rabbits.
Know, catch snakes and keep 'em for pets.
Yeah.
Go swimming, you know, and things like that.
But far as go, like games,  seriously we didn't take no games in, except for like  ball, like  what boys usually play.
That's about it.
Oh yeah, s-  ah, yeah we had that played that.
Um  hide, go seek, kickball,  basketball, football,  and we used to go horseback riding.
That's more of a sport, you know, actually.
No what it was, where we was living at was a stable out there.
And people owned   and so we was fortunate  until you know, they had to tear the stable down, and it got moved.
Yeah.
No, just free.
That's  we ride cause knew him very well.
Th- his son was one of the fellas.
Well,  somebody stand at a tree or somewhere and then count to ten, you know, and everybody go and hide.
And then someone come and find you.
And then-  well if they catch you and get back to the base before you do, you it.
And if not, well, you safe.
Well what we did, everybody start hollering, I'm not it, you know?
And then we start picking  who didn't mind being it,   you know?
No, I didn't.
Never.
Like nursery school rhymes, and things?
I don't know 'em.
No, they had 'em in school but um  we didn't k-  too much with 'em you know?
Yeah, three potatoes, go, something like that.
Then Mary had a little lamb,  feet was white as snow.
engine, engine, number nine?
I heard that one, and  then- had one uh  uh  so long ago.
It's kind of hard to remember   back that far.
No.
We didn't pick anything like that.
S- Kickball.
Well it, uh, it was more than one way of playing.
Someone roll the ball and the other person kick it you know, run to a base, you know, and he had someone on his side.
Was two different teams, you know, and it was similar to baseball only you can use your foot.
And then you was allowed to through the ball at the person and hit them before you get to the base.
Yeah, to the uh, to the other guy.
Um  It's  now   Boy you got me going way back.
That's way back.
Um,  I can't remember exactly what was what you know, and- now a days, you know, because actually, I didn't play it too much with the kids at all.
Mostly I kept to myself.
You know?
Because uh, what it was, I had a dog for one thing.
And I spent most of my time with the dog, or I caught snakes for a pet, and I usually keep them, you know, occupied with my time.
But other than that, far as go playing like with all the kids, I didn't even spend too much time with 'em.
Oh, well, keep 'em.
Well if my mother didn't um run me out the house with them right away,  well I'd play with 'em for awhile, you know,  because uh  they wasn't poisonous.
There was only a few of 'em was poisonous, and the ones that was poisonous we'd pop the head off  or put 'em over some fire and burn 'em.
Looking for they legs.
Pardon me?
Oh you can tell by the different species of uh snakes because I read a lot of reptile books.
You know?
And so that's why- The only ones they had around here at- at that time, was um-  what was those snakes?
It wasn't a black snake cause they're none poisonous snakes.
Um  I don't even remember the name of the snakes now,  but it was way out there.
I don't think it was a Copperheads.
Well anyway, it was one right out here in Maryland cause usually if you ask someone who was living out here, if they not an adult, they gonna tell you the exact name of 'em you know.
But they got rid of all them.
But other than that, the rest of 'em was nothing but garden snakes you know?
Or a black snake.
Oh  you can keep alive long time, all you have to do is really  feed 'em insects,  mice,  any small animal, you know?
Alive.
Yeah.
Well, what it is, they, know after they eat the mouse.
They just lay there and let the food digest in their uh body.
No.
They try their best to get away though.
Yeah, we used to watch 'em  very very closely, you know,  and you actually can see as the mouse,  you know, as he digesting the mouse, you know, the way his skin moves and everything.
And within about  one or two days  the mouse is gone.
Ha, no they didn't.
But when they did, they ate a lot.
Yeah, swallow 'em whole.
They didn't believe in biting off some, and saving some for later.
No.
Well the dog I had, I had more than one breed of dog.
Each dog I had was a Pedigree dog, except for one I had was a mix breed.
But then uh, I found out that out of all the dogs I had, the mix breed was the best one.
Yes, he was easier to train for one thing.
And then like, if we left him out, and went out of town, he took care of himself.
Yes, and- oh, we called him Keno.
K-e-n-o.
And so uh  to me, he was a beautiful dog cause he was- uh he was a mixed breed with German Shepard and Boxer.
And he was trained to uh baby-sit little kids across the street up by the light.
He  open the door  or ring the doorbell.
And so he was very well trained because uh we had him for five years.
before he caught stimples and we had him put b-  you know, put him away.
And I thought more him than I did any dog .
Yeah.
He even worked for a living where I- he was living .
Yeah, a watch dog for a gas station  at night.
It sounds- sounds incredible.
But it really was true though.
And if you could see the owner of the gas station now, he would tell you the same thing, and when the dog was there he wasn't allowed to go inside at all.
Yeah he was very large.
I don't care too much for a small dog.
I like a larger dog for this reason:  if they don't bite,  well they could scare devil out of somebody though,  give them the impression that they will bite, you know, that's a lot of protection.
But a smaller dog, they so small,  just can't have no fun with 'em.
You know, cause if you start wrestling with them you might hurt 'em, you know?
And that's the only thing about it.
I know he would have.
I know this for a fact.
Yeah.
And he was the type of dog, like he if he know someone  and um  you tell him come over go with you somewhere at night,  he'll go with you.
And he will protect you,  you know.
If someone come tryna bother you, he'll watch out for you, you know.
Because uh  he was trained very well  cause I spent all my time with him.
I didn't even, you know, go to parties, or nothing like that.
Well I started out when he was a puppy you know, house breaking him,  and then after that  you know, I start turning around the front door you know.
And then watch very closely, he put his foot up on a paw- his paw up  you know, and try to get him up there to reach the doorbell, and as he got larger he was able to reach it you know?
When he was able to reach it, I stopped pushing it with the paw,  and every time he pushed the doorbell, we'll open the door on the other side.
And so it got so he was in a habit  you know?
When he wanted to get in, he ring the doorbell.
We know to answer.
And then if the door was unlocked,  you know, he could turn the doorknob with his mouth  to come in.
He was easy to train, but  I tell you, like a- a Pedigree dog,  they a little difficult.
Yeah, they say they're easier, but they're not.
The uh Pedigree dog wouldn't take care of themselves.
They got no mixed breed.
He was trained to kill.
Yes.
He almo- yes, I did  because around the area where I had was living at  everyone had a dog  was trained to kill.
And most of the boys used to put their dogs up to fight each other,  make bets,  and so uh, after I had him.
First time I was seen him fight, scared me half to death cause I thought he couldn't fight, you know?
But end up, this man's dog- he had a Boxer and he stick his dog on  Keno,  and  I thought for sure the dog was gonna kill Keno but  uh the dog didn't cause Keno got to his throat first.
But I end up making him let it go though before he killed him.
But mostly I was scared half to death.
And then I had no trouble about that guy no more, you know?
Then Keno kind of got a name for himself behind that you know?
Cause guys used to come around seeking for him you know?
Bring their dogs, stick their dogs on him.
But he took care of hisself pretty well.
No you couldn't.
All you do is get a dummy.
That's all.
And keep telling him, attack,  but you, you can use yourself as a target.
You know, put your arm up,  show him some of the ways that a person would be mean to him  because a dog know they master not gonna hurt him, and then he'll know to attack,  attack your arm, or go for your throat, go anything.
Then if you get him used to a command,  you just get a dummy and put it in front him  and say, attack!
and constantly keep pushing that in his mind.
And he get what you mean.
Yeah.
Although a lot of people had um,  different ways of training their dogs.
Like some of the guys  what they did, they gave the dog gun powder.
Some of the guys beat the dogs  to make 'em mean.
And which, I think is wrong because it's cruelty to the animal, you know?
And the dog don't know any better, just to go on, by command.
But I didn't have- Yeah, I never had beat him.
Except for uh, my mother used to spank him,  because he had a bad habit of pulling clothes off the line.
And whenever he pull clothes off the line, he knew he did wrong so the first thing he did was ran   because he knew she was gonna get next to him.
Except for one day she caught  you know, and she put his head between her legs and spanked him.
And after that  he didn't do it no more.
You gotta really spend time with 'em,  all your time.
And you have to really show the dog that you really love him you know, and after that dog realize that, that dog will do anything for you.
Pardon me?
Yeah.
Yeah, and you have an animal that will take care of you.
Because um, I have a dog right now.
It's a German Shepard,  but due to the fact I'm living in an apartment, my cousin have to keep him.
And then at the time, I don't know,  I think Wesley have seen my dog.
because um  what happened, I brought her down here to the office.
She's okay,  you can come up to her and pet her,  talk to her, play with her  but when we in the apartment,  you can go in the kitchen,  you can walk around the living room,  but don't go near the bedroom cause she will get you, know?
And then don't touch the baby, don't touch the baby, or my wife at all.
Only way you can touch the baby if we give you the baby.
Then you can't rock the baby, nothing like that  cause, so she'll attack you.
And then if I have her in a car  with me,  don't come near the car at all.
I have to get out the car and come and see you.
And so, I mean, she's pretty well trained, you know.
Yeah.
I work with her mostly.
And then, now my cousin have her, he working with her now because uh, she was getting to be a little too vicious towards everyone, you know.
And then when we go different places no one now  allowed to walk close to us at all,  which is very bad for her.
Yeah.
Well when I was in elementary school  I had a lot of math when I was in class,  which, that's one of the things I major in  was Math,  Art,  then English,  Grammar,  you know.
And then we had a lot of History.
The basic things that you really study in school, you know.
Senior High or Junior High?
Well Senior High, I had mostly business subjects  cause, you know, mostly office work.
And then I had a little typing,  then I had you know, a little bit of everything.
And then I had mostly uh, Art, because uh they let you sign up for some of your classes at the school I was attending at the time.
And so the classes I picked was Math.
Now when I went to Trigonometry.
You know, just got a touch of that,  and then I had Commercial Art and Interior Decorating.
Then time I was in there, cause those was the main things I was interested in.
And then one of the things that you take in high school whether you want to take it or not,  is Cadet.
Yeah, they get you ready for military service you know, which is good.
So some of the guys I know, something what it's like,  but yet still it's a little rougher when you get in there.
You know?
No.
Uh, elementary and junior high?
Well  what I did when ??
s-  elementary,  I'm'a speak for myself  I can't speak for anyone else.
But what we used to do, once we got out of school  we'd go down to the playground, play for awhile you know.
And then someone always had a record player or something, you know, and we used to dance, and then I had a certain hour I had to be in the house,  about eight o'clock in the evening.
And then behind that I had to do my homework, and then to bed.
That's elementary, and then when I got to junior high school,  mostly what I did was party  after school every day  just about.
I go partying and oh and then, if I didn't party,  I had the dog, you know, with me, something like that.
But other than that,  nothing else.
High school,  I was in uh  during the whole time I was in high school, I work.
You know, at Top's Drive-in?
And, I didn't get off until about four in the morning.
So I actually had enough time to get home,  do my homework,  get a couple hours of sleep,  and get back to work.
I took it-  I took it up until about  a half in the semester in the twelfth grade.
Then I had to cut it lose.
I started working soon as I went into the tenth grade.
Oh, I was supposed to be there at  four o'clock, but was no way, excuse me, was one- no way possible for me to make it, cause I was work- going to uh RD-SCHOOL-4, which is over on Seventeenth and East Capital Street,  and then I had to go out all the way to Arlington, Virginia,  Fortieth and Oakley Road,  and so they let me come in at five, you know.
And so I just worked a little later  than usual.
Yeah.
Yes.
Well see, it's something I wanted to do because um,  for the clothes that I like, my father refused to pay the money for because at the time I was in high school, I liked forty dollar shoes, fifty dollar shoes.
And my father said that was too much to pay for shoes,  and so I decided to do- I just decided to do one thing- work for my money,  my clothes, you know.
And that's what I did.
At least that way I was clean everyday when I went to school and had money in my pocket.
I didn't mind.
Uh, yes there was.
I had a Government teacher.
She yelled a lot at the kids.
But one thing I'm'a say for her, she was a very good teacher.
Cause when you go out that classroom,  whether you want to or not, you learned something.
One way or other, you know?
But she was a very good teacher, she yelled a lot.
And then when I was in elementary school, I had one teacher,  and she was hateful.
That was in kindergarten, though.
And  that's one teacher I do remember, her name, everything.
I will never forget her because she spank my hands a couple of times.
And then if you raise your hand to go to the bathroom, she say, no.
And then if you do something in your clothes, then she'll spank you, know?
Then send you home to your parents.
She really was.
No, it wasn't.
No, it wasn't.
She was just evil like that.
It was a very old lady, you know?
And what it is, now that I'm older,  I think what it was was her patience.
You know?
I don't think she had much patience with the kids at all.
Oh, years ago.
I thought she was the most hateful woman around.
If I had a brick, she woulda got it.
Yeah, she'd be the only one because all my other teachers I got along with them fine.
I never had any trouble with my teachers.
Yes I was ,  several classes.
Well- well, in one of the classes,  well, we had our thugs  in the classroom.
And they was kind of smart but they were thugs,  and what they used to do sometime, they um  I mean the cushion in the teacher's chair, in the morning, they got in there and took it apart  and put tacks under there.
And we had to stay out the class for a whole week behind that  cause no one wouldn't tell, and then another time was-  was someone brought some bees-  bumble bees in the room  and let 'em loose.
And so the teachers got us about that.
But other than that  everything is pretty nice.
And then we had  a few teachers that, well  one teacher that is particular  that everyone was really crazy about.
Yes.
And that was one of my homeroom teachers, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 who was at RD-SHOOL-5.
because during the time she was there  she did the things she had to do.
And I think uh  at our age that we realize that  when we was bad  she punish us.
When we was good  she reward us.
You know?
And the kids thought so much of her that um  every time her birthday came, well she always got a  surprise birthday party there at school.
Yeah, and gifts.
And right to this day, now, I see a lot of kids who I know who went to school with me.
They go back and see her now.
I even go back there every now and then and see her.
Um  no, she's really no contest really.
Another one of my teachers who I think very highly of was uh, Mrs.
RD-NAME-1 She's also at RD-SCHOOL-1,  Junior High teacher.
And uh, she was my English teacher.
She taught me awful lot.
I learned a lot from her.
And then like if I did wrong on my paper or something like that,  got disgusted, she always said to me,  try at first and don't succeed, try try again, which is something that I never forgot.
And uh I did what she said.
And seeing like I'm beginning to succeed now, in life .
Things getting better for me instead of worse.
And I really think highly of her for that.
Well one of things is the personality of the teacher.
The teacher getting with the students,  you know?
Getting interested in what some of the students are interested in, you know, and  you know, really putting theirself out with 'em, you know?
Instead uh, you walk in the classroom, like one of my teachers told me,  say um,  you- I got my diploma, you have to get yours.
The one who wrote the book gotta A, the one who teach the book get the B, and you can't get no higher than a C.
I have had several teachers that tell me that.
And of one 'em wasn't kidding.
The highest grade was in his classroom  was a D plus.
I got a D minus, and I was grateful for that,  you know?
And so um,  I mean the teachers,  some of 'em, I say this, uh, for 'em:  they really feel like they doing the right thing you know?
But some of 'em really have to be cruel towards some of the students  cause some of the students are cruel towards the teachers.
And then again, I'm not too sure about that.
But it's a for reason,  like I told you, the two teachers who I was speaking of, okay they had the same type of students that some of the other teachers had.
I mean guys who was really bad,  who wouldn't listen.
But yet still,  those guys respected them very highly, and didn't give them the trouble that uh  they gave other teachers.
And so I really think it r-  falls on their personality.
And then the high interest in the student is in the work because some of the teachers can sit in there and preach the whole book to you and everything else,  and it be boring as I don't know what.
Next thing you know, everyone going to sleep, you know, and then if you say something to 'em, well, they feel  like uh you're against them, you know?
Because I felt that way myself,  know, several times against some teachers.
And so,  I think one of the good qualities is their personality, that carry a long way.
And regardless of the race or  how poor a child is or  how the child is dressed when they come to school,  if you go ahead and try to be nice to that child and try to help that child  they will love you, know?
And they will learn something and try to do better.
I used to watch TV uh pretty often, but here lately I don't even have the chance really to watch it, you know?
Since my wife, you know, she works over time  at night and I have the baby.
And so you know how much uh time I have for TV now.
But the programs I do like to look at on TV comes on  late at night, you know?
And like, earlier programs I like to look at is like, My Favorite Martian, something that's fiction.
And  the reason why I do like to look at that and McHale's Navy is because nothing else is on.
You know?
But later on in the evening, it's like uh, It Takes a Thief.
I enjoy that very much.
Now, it's a new program just came on, because uh actually, if you really look at it,  it gives you a education  on how some thieves might operate,  pick pockets, and then that way, you know how to keep on the lookout for yourself you know?
When people bump into you or something,  and you- it's hard to believe some of the things that uh  the guy do in the picture.
Yeah.
Yes it is, but it's uh  mostly, it's a lot of fiction in it because uh,  I feel it's fiction because um  it's impossible for some people to do some of the things that he do and get away with it, you know?
That impressed me?
Ah, let me see now.
Oh, I'm getting old and feeble-minded now, you know.
Very forgetful.
Well, let's see, he was on uh Monday night.
It was a program on,  oh, it was one program where he was supposed to have stolen,  s- get some film,  some micro film,  of some secret information of the United States.
And, the part that really impressed me  was how  he was able to um  get the film from the guy without the knowledge of the guy g- knowing.
You know, and then the other thing he had a briefcase on his arm, that hooks on.
He was able to get the briefcase off the guy's arm with a key, and the guy never knew the difference.
Now all this happened in about  fifteen seconds, you know, on a aeroplane.
And so I mean, you know, I really feel that it's impossible because I know for myself if someone touched my  uh wrist, you know, and I possessed something locked on there that's very valuable to me,  they not gonna get it off without me knowing .
And so that's why I think r-  really amazes me, you know,  and  could it be true.
Cause really nowadays you can't say nothing that's impossible.
You know?
Then one of the other programs that I like to watch is Bonanza, which is a western,  you know.
And um  I forgot some of the other programs.
Really to tell the truth  if someone walk up to me now and say uh, what day and what channel do so and so pro- come on-  program come on?
It could be something I watch.
I really couldn't tell 'em  because what it is, I just catch 'em, you know,  as they come on every now and then.
And then I Spy, I like that very much.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, this is one thing that interested me, uh, in I Spy,  where was this uh, one of the spies is Negro, the other is white.
And so the Negro s- spy, had a daughter,  which was a overseas daughter that he sent money and care too, and he went to see her,  which really surprised him.
You know they were both as surprised to see each other, one was white and one was Negro.
And so uh  the way that the uh,  the writer of the program wrote that, I think was very nice and very neat.
How she really love him, and he really love her,  and they seem to be very close just from mail, you know?
And I mean  that part of it, I don't think is fiction at all because that's something that could be true.
You know it shows that a relationship between races can exist right now,  these days.
But some people think it's impossible because someone's skin is different,  but it's something wrong with them.
The last movie I seen was The Graduate.
Well it was about a lady they call Mrs.
Roger,  and who's uh, husband  was a partner of this boy's father, and the boy was twenty years of age,  who never knew the difference between a male and female.
But yet still this lady, uh, she seduced the boy,  and then come to find out that uh  she have a daughter,  and then the boy and the girl end up  running off with each other really.
Well actually before then she really messed the boy's life up, and then  The picture I think what the meaning of the picture was, to show  how some adults really can have a great influence on a younger person  because when she first started to influence the boy, the boy wasn't interested.
He tried his best to get away  cause he was really scared for th- for several reason,  that was his father's best friend's wife.
You know?
And she was his elder, and he had respected her all his life, but yet still she insisted on it, that she wanted the boy.
She had practically forced the boy, you might as well say.
And then it shows how someone that can be so bold also.
You know,  by bringing the boy into her house,  knowing that her husband was coming home,  and undressing in front of the boy  and locking the door  where he couldn't get out.
But,   yes, it was.
And at the time, when the boy did get out, her husband pull up in a car,  and that's when he made sure he got out- out the room, you know, and got downstairs.
And it showed the boy, how the boy  really grew up  in a matter of weeks, you know?
And the boy just finished college and everything,  it's amazing.
But uh  far as go like  someone is really-  a boy is really that dumb in life, you know  w- went through college.
It's kind of hard to believe, you know?
But it-  it was a very good picture, though, and it had a very good reading to it.
Although if some people seen it, um, they thought it was a little on the dirty side.
But I think that goes by, how that person think, you know if you think dirty everything will be dirty to you.
But if you think there's some moral behind the story, well, you wouldn't think that way.
And there was a moral behind that.
No.
I was always a loner.
I'm a loner.
Yes.
Although, I mean I know  quite a few fellers, and I mean  as far as go like saying best friends, all of 'em are best friends.
Equal.
Far as go like letting someone get  very very close to me,  no.
I don't trust no one that much,   regardless who they are,  male or female.
And so  I mean I have guys who I go out with a lot now.
No,  and I had 'em before,  but I never go out with the same guy too much.
You know, we never go out together on double dates too much or anything like that because I like change and back and forth.
Because I really don't want myself to get involved with 'em.
Cause once you get involved, anything liable to happen.
You know, and if something happen, then your feelings hurt  and everything backfire on you.
No, I'm this way.
I'm not prejudice.
I don't  care what race you are in,  I'm not prejudiced towards no one because all my life I was raised with white people.
White, Negro, and Spanish, all foreigners, just about all nationalities.
And I go by this way.
I don't care what race you are, if you do something to me,  then I hold that against you.
I won't be angry towards you, I'll continue to speak to you,  talk to you,  but yet still in the back of my mind, I never forget it, you know?
Make sure it don't happen twice.
And then, like far as it go like um  cause you're a white man, um  I don't have anything to say to you.
That's wrong to think  because um,  they say all men a-  are created equal, and I found out that's true because uh, some people in my race are just as bad as the white man.
Although some of the white men, I have found this out to be true,  will take more of advantage of you  than a Negro will,  but the thing about it, when they do take advantage of you,  they try to be nice about it.
You know?
And so like uh for instance, you find a lot of con men, of all races,  and that had been tried so many times,  guys tryna con me, you know, into doing certain things.
And especially young ladies  try to con me, mostly for, you know, money or to buy them something.
And the first girl I ever bought anything for in my life was my wife.
Other than that,  I won't spend no money on no girl.
And then when a girl start conning me, or somebody tryna con me,  I move away from 'em, you know,  because the g- con game,  One way or the other,  I know.
Cause I start getting that round when I was ten, you know?
And then mostly the reason why I said I didn't play with no kids when I was younger because when I was ten years old, everybody I swing with  was in they twenties.
Yes.
And see I grew up fast.
I learned a lot, very fast,  and then I have uncles and aunts  who was about  eight, nine, ten years older than I am,  who taught me the ropes, taught me always look out for this, you know, look out for that.
And that's why  little kids seem to l-  it's like kids to me.
You know I really didn't have too much to say with 'em.
Yeah.
And then like uh, for instance, once upon a time they had a place here in DC where teenagers really could go and uh  have theyself a ball.
It was nice.
And when I was supposed to be in bed at that time of night, I was out, having me a ball, you know.
The smallest one out there, but I was out there.
Well, if I could live my life over again, I could change something.
It is to be-  not to be as poor as I was.
You know?
And try to contici-  conticipate more so than  life than I did, you know,  with other kids,  then tryna grow up too fast.
Because I miss out on a lot of things in life.
You know, like a lot of things right now  don't interest me because I already done 'em, you know,  like a lot of the kids are doing.
it just don't interest me, at all.
Yeah.
And then, I'm'a try to grow up a little slower than I did at first.
When I was back in school?
Yes I did.
I wanted to be a doctor.
You know?
But uh  really a veterinarian,  that's what I really wanted to be.
I really had my heart set on it.
Yes, and I really lost that interest  when that dog we had named Keno died.
When he died, I lost all interest in being a vet.
You know?
What happened, he had stimples.
And so, the doctor said that they had no cure for a dog with stimples cause  he got that from being around other dogs,  and so he said we had a choice  either to let him live and suffer  or put him away.
And so we had him put away.
You know, to see the dog living  suffering very badly.
I'd share a little bit of it  with everybody.
Because I wouldn't want all the money  you find people with a lot of money are very unhappy.
P- No, money can buy everything, except love, friendship,  happiness.
And those the main things a man need in this world nowadays.
Because so called friends,  they'll be around while you got it, but when it's gone,  that's when you find out who your friends are, you know?
If they with you when you're down,  those your friends.
But if they only with you when you up,  they just wanna use you.
Uh, like the job I'm on now?
Okay.
For  right now  things are slow,  and then so mostly what I do is  something like mail,  or I might Xerox sometime  or I  go out somewhere, get some airline tickets.
Really what you have to do, is look for work.
Yeah.
And but other than that, if it's very busy, I help in processing, do some filing  and help with proposals and  try to decide on  how many proposals do we need for this year.
You know?
How should we arrange these proposals?
So we could find 'em easily.
You know when it's time for the grant,  and uh, which is very interesting, you learn a lot, you know?
Yes, it's high level work, but uh  you don't get the high level money.
That's the only problem right there, you know?
They- what they going on by is how much education you had in school.
You know, if you had uh  like for instance, as far as I went to school was high school,  to the twelfth grade,  and at the time, my parents,  they wanted me to go to college, but  my parents really couldn't afford it.
And so I didn't push the issue  because before I go to college, I say well I'd rather wait,  and maybe one year I'll go back to school at nights, you know,  and major in some kind of trade or something, which I did start school, you know, in Landscape Design and Small Property.
And so um  right after I finish high school  I moved out.
You know?
Cause I wanted to see what it was like on the other side of the grass.
It looks awfully green to me out there you know?
And, at the time I was at the age of eighteen then, when I moved out.
Haven't been back home yet.
I'm twenty four.
No intentions on going back cause I feel once a young man get out there,  supposed to stay be able to stand his ground you know?
And I think when a young man turn eighteen, if he's not going to college,  he should be on his own because um  he no more baby.
You know, ain't mama and papa sound educated for eighteen years, they tired of looking at you eating their bread.
You know?
And meeting them at the bank, you know, on pay day saying uh, how about a couple dollars, Pop?
you know?
I mean that's not where it's at.
But I-  I've been very fortunate though.
I guess it through the people who I know and everything, you know,  because really I can't say what you call a rough life.
Because my life was pretty easy really.
To be honest with you, because my father and mother really broke they neck to try get me and my brother things we really wanted.
You know, until my taste got so expensive in high school on clothes.
Then my dad kind of put his foot down you know and changed those things.
Well  only thing I did far as I was concerned, Christmas was just like another day to me.
Yeah after I found out it was no Santa Claus for real, it was just Mom and Dad,   you know?
And I found out at a very young age like seven.
And then after that,  it was just another day.
You know, Mother and Father still gave me gifts and things, but I wasn't surprised because I had already picked out what I wanted you know?
They say, oh, what do you like?
you know, because I like games,  to bait me just to say what I like so they could try to get it for me.
And so  it just seemed like ordinary days to me.
Well yeah,  we always decorated a tree or something like that, you know.
But after I-  like I said, after I found out what it was,  I wasn't  too much interested in decorating trees or anything.
I didn't see no sense in it, you know?
Cause my brother knew also   what it was so I say it's a waste of time and money just to decorate a tree.
Because far as it go like having Christmas spirit, something I don't have.
Unintelligible I didn't have  up until a year ago.
Yeah.
Yeah, I developed it.
Uh they came around visiting an awful lot,  lot of my relatives did.
But far as it go, like me going visiting them?
No.
I don't like to go to people houses and sit.
I can stay home and sit too well  you know?
I always, if there's no action there, I don't wanna go  cause if I go, I just run in and say, hello, you doing, and then that's it.
I'm all ready to go you know.
And it's the same way right now,  far as it go like  going to someone's house and sit down  blase, and you know?
I'm really not interested in that because for one thing,  you have to hold still too long, it's too quiet, you know?
And I guess it really is my nerves you know?
I just can't hold still that long.
Oh boy.
Let me see,  yes I do remember.
The best Christmas present I ever got  was a handkerchief.
A handkerchief.
To me.
It was cheap  but And it was a card along with it.
And I receive it from my wife.
At the time she was my fiancee,  and it really got next to me.
And then uh, it's another one that I receive also.
It was two  very good ones.
It's when uh  I was renting a room with  this family,  and what is it, they treat me like I was their son.
You know, they let me have the use of the whole entire house,  the car.
I was just like I was back at home at Mom and Dad's, you know, really,  and at that Christmas  they gave me clothes you know,  sweater shirts.
They knew my taste very well.
You know and  they gave me those things, which really shocked me  cause I really wasn't expect for them to do that.
You know?
And I mean they really seemed like my parents.
Right today they do.
But I've always been very fortunate, you know.
At Christmas time, I always receive a lot of gifts.
I give quite a few because um  mostly who I give my gifts to- I don't give gifts to adults, very seldom.
Mostly to kids,  you know, my little brothers, or little cousins, or someone else's little kids  because I used to be a sucker.
Excuse the expression!
But I enjoyed it  because um  to me, to see someone other b- somebody else's kids happy, make me very happy.
You know?
And I used to spend my whole pay check.
Just buying e- And  you know, just giving things to people kids.
Even right today,  if my wife don't catch me first, you know?
I spend my money cause right next door to me in the same apartment building is a little boy seven years old.
His mother's  and father separated so, she take care of him.
But she- to me, she's cruel to the boy because um  the boy wanna go out and play with some of the other guys out, so as you know, ride the bicycle around.
She said, no, you stay in this house, you know?
And so um  I mean she spanks the boy a lot.
She spank him so bad til you can hear it through the walls just about.
And so what I do, he stays at my house a lot now.
You know, spend the night and everything.
I take him out horseback riding,  things that he never done before,  and just to see the expression on his face, and the other kids around there,  how happy they be when I do these, make me feel very good.
Make me feel like I'm doing something,  you know?
And most people really think he's my little brother, cause he calls- he tells everybody I'm his brother.
But little girls,  I'll give 'em a gift, but as far as go like  playing with little girls and thing?
No.
Because um  when a girl's at a certain age  it's wise for a man not to  be too close to her.
If anything happen  you can be blame,  whether you was around when it happened or not,  you know?
Um  let me see if I can remember.
Yes I was, once.
It was when I fell out of a two story window once.
You know?
And it was, I was just  jiving around,  my cousin and I,  doing something we wasn't supposed to be doing,  like playing baseball inside the house.
You know?
On the second floor.
She was in the  hall  and the bedroom door, when you open it,  you could throw the ball way back and hit the ball.
And so when she um  threw the ball this time,  I got ready to hit the ball,  and then I see well it might break the window pane if I swung the bat so I dropped the bat to catch the ball, and when I went back like that I went through the window.
No it was open.
Cause in the summer time.
I got the ball and  get hurt.
But on the way going down a lot of thoughts running through my mind.
No, I wasn't hurt.
I was shocked though.
You know?
That's about all.
I landed on my feet and everything.
You know.
But I was shocked more than I was anything else.
But other than that, as far as go like  being close to death or anything like that, no.
Because um  I really was never around the type of environment where  I might  feel like something really happened to me.
And that's all I have to say about that.
That's true.
That's right.
It doesn't worry-  it don't even worry me.
And then like um  a lot of people tell me, say,  you better not go out this time of night because somebody might  hurt you, or something like that.
And far as go like going to school and things, or certain areas a lot of kids wouldn't go through  because in order for us to get to school, we have to go through the rough areas.
Guys who uh collect protection fees.
And so end up, I got to know all the hoodlums and thugs around the neighborhood,  so I can get through those areas for free  you know, without the fear of getting beat up.
But yet still, right to this day, I don't care.
I'll walk through anywhere.
If a group of boys come down the street  I walk on past 'em.
It don't bother me because I feel this way:  it's the good Lord meaning for me to get hurt,  I'm gonna get hurt.
You can't duck it.
But if you don't well,  you can walk on through, and then if you show a person that you're not scared  and just ignore them but keep to yourself,  they not gonna bother you.
Because they don't know what you gonna do.
But if you show a little bit of fear,  which I did one time in my life,  boy you can really have it.
This one thing I did in my life,  was when I was in elementary school with this boy.
He used to wait for me everyday, he was waiting where I was  and everyday   I always ran home.
He was right behind me, ready to catch up with me and beat me up you know.
And so he chased me up for about a year and half  a year and half.
And finally then one day, my father see me running.
And he say, if you come running home again,  you gonna get a beating when you get home, every day that you run.
And so that next day, the boy came after me,  I started to run.
And I seen my father,  and so at that time, I stopped and turned around.
The boy caught me and raised his fists and got ready to hit me.
We got into a little scuffle.
End up I was able to beat the boy.
And then it was my turn to do some b-  do some chasing for awhile, you know?
But it really shocked me that I really could whip the boy.
And ever since that day,  I never been afraid of anyone,  you know?
I never run from anyone, let nothing scare me like that.