RD-NAME-4.
Ten.
Hide and Go Seek.
You have to hide,  and then another person would  have to find you.
And when that person find you, you have to run to base.
And if-  And if you don't get to base  first, the last one that get to  base is it.
You have to chase afte- after another person.
Password.
It's a game w-  when you have to whisper,  and then when it gets around to the last person,  you have to um-  The last person be it.
Hm.
You have to whisper to a um, another person.
You have to go around in circle and whisper.
And then when you get to the end, the person-  the person that is it have to stand up and turn their head and hold their eyes  and then they have to find out which one is it.
You whisper anything.
No.
We don't play too much at home.
Time Bomb.
M-  It's a um-  It's a-  a ball that's yellow or black and-  and then you have to turn it.
And then it- it would tick, and then it  it- you have to stand in a straight line and pass it down.
And when it stops it'll make a boom.
And then the last person that  have it  have to be it.
Had to get out.
Mm-hm.
Play throwing snowballs at each other.
When you have n-  have to throw snowballs at each other and then the last one  that um, you throw the snowball at  have to get out.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
We play Double Dutch.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm,  cartoons and  Hazel,  Woody Woodbury,  Bewitched,  That Girl.
Bat-  I mean um,  Superman.
It's about Superman  when he was a little boy.
Sometimes.
s- They show him when he's a man, sometimes they show him when he's a little boy.
And he has a dog that flies too.
A dog.
They help people from other planets and  help on Earth.
Help them, like if somebody was j- getting killed,  or something, they would go rescue them.
No.
I don't have no favorite.
Hazel.
Mm-hm.
Um, one time Hazel,  she gonna want to let her next door friends  um, live next to her, so she can see 'em all the time.
And then um,  um,  the man of the house  didn't  um, want 'em live next door because he see 'em at work every day.
And he always aks 'em for money.
And so he end up-  at the end, he end up aksing 'em for money  to um,  to buy the house next door.
Hazel is the um,  the lady that help clean  up the house.
A maid.
The Mothers In Law.
Um, it's about-  they um-  one h-  one of the  p-  people next door,  they have-  they are real close to the people that live  next door-  door to him.
And so their um, son-  her son and um,  the other one's  um, daughter got married and then they became mothers in law.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
But they always fussing.
Mm-hm.
Mm,  at first they didn't want their children to marry.
Mm.
Yeah.
The one about-  every time  um,  somebody  dr-  m- one time,  um, somebody tried to break in their house,  and the husbands wasn't home,  and then she- um,  um, on the p- the other person that live next door is on the only one  that was there,  and so, somebody broke into the house.
And  the man came in with a gun and then-  then the person  Kay, next door, she wanted to come in, and so she knocked.
And the lady said, don't an-  The man said, don't answer it, and  she said well i- sh- if she-  if she don't-  if she know  that I'm right here,  if I don't answer,  that she's gonna get  the um, key from under the mat  and come on in.
And so anyway, she had to let her in.
And then he  point the gun at her and then the husbands got home and then the man finally-  somebody finally called the police and  that was the end.
Sometimes.
Mm,  westerns.
I can't  remember.
Mm, Planet of the Apes and- Um,  the man-  it was- he was um, coming-  and they would-  a guy on the um,  the ship, and they'd been on that ship for  um,  eighteen  or a hundred  or forty  something like that  years.
And then, they um, finally came back to a planet.
And then they- this planet had people like them but they didn't know how to talk.
And then- Uh-huh.
And then um,  some-  when they first got there, they  saw water, and they-  and they found out that it was life on that planet.
And then, they um,  they-  the um-  the apes,  it was some apes.
They came along on horses,  and took wh-  whips and um,  started hitting on them.
And then, they um-  they took 'em to there and then  it was only  they um, got their par-  um, their partners,  and when they got off the ship,  the-  the lady- it was only one lady on it.
And when they s-  closed the um-  the what  the um, it had glass and they  pressed the button, the glass went over.
Then they s-  went to sleep for uh-  Well some-  a hundred years.
And when they woke back up, they had um, mis-  um, beards and everything, and the woman was found  with  nothing but bones.
Mm-hm.
I don't think she could survive.
When they got- Uh-huh.
At the end, they found that they were on their um,  own planet.
He tooked one of the girls with him.
And it was-  it was a lady ape.
And she likeded the one,  and sh- it was something the matter with his throat so he couldn't talk then.
And so,  a- there was nothing around his throat.
He could talk, and then they couldn't believe it.
And then they took him out there to see one of his friends and they cut out his skull.
And he couldn't talk.
Um- The men.
The apes, they were kind of good, but the ones that come out to get  um,  n-  the doctors, they were the good ones.
The um- The apes that went out to get the people, they were the bad apes.
They were something like guards.
And then,  they-  and then the doctors were  nice.
And it was only one lady doctor  that liked him,  the man, and she called him blue eyes.
And then,  at the end, she don't wanna kiss him,  and she said- And she said he was so ugly.
They were found that they were in New York  the whole time.
I guess it was a part of the Earth that they never saw.
They staw the stats-.
Uh, I don't know where the Statue of Liberty is  but they saw the Statue of Liberty.
I think they went back home.
I think at the end of Planet of the Apes, I thought  from- Since they been on their ship for a long time I-  I  guess that they were um-  they were on Earth and it was nothing but monkeys on Earth.
Because you saw all those monkeys  with- And then at the end, it gave you the whole idea when you saw the Statue of Liberty I can't remember.
Mm-mm.
Dogs.
Two.
One is a German Shepherd, and one is a  ordinary dog.
Um,  my brother knew somebody that had a dog,  but he thought he would have to pay for him.
But  it was this other person he knew that knew the  person who had the  dog, and so he could get it f- he got it free.
Mm-hm.
The dog is just s-  six months.
He's about that big.
And the other one is six years old almost.
One morning my mother,  she um,  left the door  um, closed and then he-  he um-  he opened the door  and camed on in.
Uh-huh.
It's a hole in that window where somebody broke it.
My mother's tryna get  my father to get it fixed because it's dangerous.
And so the dog,  he um- he took his paws and the door wasn't  It's so closed real tight, and so he  took his paws and-  and pulled  and camed on in.
The German Shepherd.
They jump through the hole all the time in the window.
And I don't think the German Shepherd can get through it no more.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Well I l- If I had to get rid of one, I would get rid of the German Shepherd.
Because  um,  I'm used more to Rex than I am to the German Shepherd.
The ordinary dog.
Radar.
Radar.
His ears are like um,  antennas.
I think his ears are like antennas.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
I don't know.
I can't remember.
But I used- When I was a little girl,  when around five, when we first got him, I used to call him Rags.
Fifth.
I passed through the fifth.
We had Art and Science.
We went out to have our par- We played games.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
The teachers.
Mm-hm.
They're understanding.
Because like,  if you did something wrong, and they would understand what you were talking about but some teachers,  they don't understand.
Mm yeah.
I don't know.
My kindergarten teacher.
I guess.
Hm,  she was nice to me.
And like, if I didn't wanna do my work,  she would-  she wouldn't- I didn't have to do it.
L- Like, I was in Catholic School then, and we would have to do one and one and  three and three and things like that.
Arithmetic.
Six.
Mm,  now I have to um, get up and put my clothes on because I'm slow.
And I still get out late.
She have five children.
My mother.
Mm-hm.
Mm,  I help the teacher sometimes.
Get ready for tomorrow.
Mm-hm.
The teacher I had in the fourth grade.
Cause she don't like you hit you.
She don't like to hit you.
Because sometimes you do wrong.
Talking.
Mm, once.
Because I shouldn't do things.
My first grade teacher.
How to be kind to others?
You have to-  Like if another person wanted to play a game,  you have to um-  you have to let them be first.
Not all the time, but  if th- you've been first all the time then it should be fair for you to be kind to them and let them be first.
No.
I don't usually play.
Sew.
Mm-mm.
Ten.
My sister she made a pair of culottes and she's only  eight.
She's finished.
RD-NAME-3 she had-  s- um, a friend across the street knew RD-NAME-3, and she  aks me did I want to join sewing.
And at first  me and my cousin and RD-NAME-3 we were the only ones that joined sewing.
It was only three of us at first.
And then the end now we're around  twelve now.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I'm almost finished a dress.
And I have to make pants to go under it.
Have to um,  get the material and you have to lay the-  get the pattern and take it out  and find A,  put all 'em together.
Find A, B, C, on up to K.
And then you have to  lay it on material and pin it.
Then after you pin it,  you have to cut-  cut out the pattern.
No I just have to do the collar and the zipper.
And I'm almost finished the arms.
And make a hem.
Mm, not all of 'em.
My friend RD-NAME-2 that came with me today.
We listen to each other.
Nice.
Like if a person be nice to you, you should always be nice back to them.
Mm-hm.
It's just like being kind to others.
Mm-mm.
When I help my mother.
When I do good deeds.
A teacher, doctor or nurse.
I don't think I'm gonna be a doctor because you have to stay in college eight years.
Um,  mm,  I really-  Um, it's between teacher and nurse.
Learn not to scream and yell.
Learn not to scream  and yell.
And be patient.
Four or five years.
Art.
I wanna be their whole teacher.
I wanna be their  normal teacher.
I wanna be  a teacher  that,  you know, when a um, another teacher comes in, I don't wanna be a art teacher or a  science teacher.
I just wanna be a plain teacher.
Mm-hm.
Help  buy my mother and father things that they want.
Mm.
I don't know.
I would-  First of all, I'd pay my mother back everything she gave me.
A happy life.
Cause I'm not sad.
Celebrate God's birthday?
Go downstairs.
Mm-hm.
Two Barbie  fancy dolls.
Not too much.
I been making clothes for 'em.
Um,  mini dresses with belts.
I made myself a scarf yesterday.
A TV set.
My mother.
I don't know.
She wants to get a piano.
I was  l-  I was um-  I was starting to learn for beginners.
But I  haven't finished yet.