Well um,  used to play hide and go seek all the time and  you know.
Get all a bunch of kids together and we go in  through apartment buildings and everything and play.
And we played rope all the time.
Well it was-  it had to do with two ropes you know that we called double dutch.
And then you know  we'd say D-I-S-H dish and  terms which we used.
And then we'd  use um  one two threes  beating or adding on or something like that.
Well we all put out feet together and then we  sort of  used this little  rhyme and everything then we go around  whoever last has to  be it.
I mean has to  you know.
No we play uh,  we say, Tarzan was in a tree, he fell out what color was his blood, and they use  red or white.
Then we- Tarzan was in a tree and he fell out, what color was his  b- um, blood red, R-E-D spells the word red and you are  it, and then- Um,  no.
No I never knew how.
Yeah.
Red rov-  Um, get a  gang of ch- kids together then we  line up in a circle  get around in a circle and everything then we play.
Red rover red rover,  send someone right over you know.
Pick a name out, and they go busting through the line and everything.
Just like that.
Mm-hm.
Sometime um,  when I'm in the house now, I'm not in the house anymore like I used to,  but  um,  Mickey Mouse and all that.
You mean when I was younger?
Oh, now?
Oh.
No, I used to- I watch cartoons in the morning the kids all wake up.
And um,  at night I usually watch Peyton Place on Tuesday and Thursday nights and  Saturday and Sunday night the movies and Wednesday night the movies.
Things like that.
I haven't kept up with it.
I haven't seen it in a long time either cause I've been outside a lot.
Oh it has to do with um,  these people.
Oh it's a sort of a-  it's a love story and then it's again it's a  I don't- story, just plain story About getting involved in everything.
Different matters,  things like that.
No, not anymore I- Well,  the last picture I saw was um,  um,  let me see, what was that picture?
I forgot the name of the picture.
Oh Valley of the Dolls was the last picture I seen.
Well it was the um- This picture was about these-  Let me see one, two, three-  These three ch- um,  women, they were  all-  Um, one woman  she used to-  Well,  it was two of 'em.
They used to use these pills called the um, dolls.
And they were little red pills, sometime they're blue and sometime they're yellow.
And they had a  sort of a like dope in 'em and um, this girl named Patty Duke  she played and she  um,  had the pills, she start  using the pills and she was um,  getting big and successful  to keep up  um, with the studios and the lights and everything.
And then after a while and then  this uh, woman that plays on Peyton Place, Barbara Parkins, she's  dresses good in the picture and everything cause she fell in love with this guy and then he left her and went to this um-  this convention, this party that they had for the men and the women.
And he left and he went there and then she began to use the dolls-  the pills and  then she-  And then they um,  well, then it went on and then  then Patty Duke she went to a s- um-  What you call those places?
Um,  uh, the-  I can't think of it.
Sanitary.
Yeah, sanitary.
And she stayed there for about  a year or so and then she became well and then she went right back to the dolls again.
You know and things like that then at the end  she was- she was so-  Well she  went into this bar and- and she got drunk and everything and she started using the pills with the  alcohol and everything and then she died.
Yeah.
Oh, television?
On television last night we watched a- last night we watched um,  Beach Party and it was um,  about uh,  kids going on a-  You know to the beach and everything for a  wild vacation and all.
And  it was pretty good and-  Well,  it was about-  I liked the part when um,  this guy and all the motorcycles and everything they come in, these two girls and about  five  boys I think.
And one of 'em was name um, something about  Harry Von Zipper or something like that well he was funny.
And you know he was always doing things stupid and everything and- Then a professor, Annette Funicello, she played it um-  What was that girl's name?
I forgot the name.
Well anyway she played in it and Frankie Avalon.
He played, and it was good.
And then she got jealous because he was going out with this other girl and everything and  they both tried to make each other jealous you know   That was all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It's a lot to learn from those I think.
It is.
Aw.
It is.
It's funny sometime it gets funny.
No.
Oh um,  the best movie I've seen was um,  Susan Hayword um, Back Street.
That's the best story.
Well, It was about this um,  woman she um-  you know  she used to live in this house with her sister.
And she had- her sister had a little daughter and everything and it was this um-  And she wanted to be a designer so she'd go up in her room sometime and she'd draw and everything and create  fashions and all.
And  one day she was- one night  um,  she was driving in a car and she stopped at this restaurant  and then she saw this man, I think he was in the Marines or something like that or in the Army or something like that.
Well he met her and then they started dating and everything and  they went to the um-  to the lake and he-  she drew a picture of him.
And then-  then he began to love her and she began to love him  and all that jazz and so,  it went on and then she became a um,  designer, her nickname  she put on the box when  um,  she designed- Her name-  her nickname was Rae, they called her Rae they put it on the box and everything.
And so,  the man that she fell in love with was already married.
and all.
And her wife-  his wife and her two kids um,  they lived in Paris.
Yeah, lived in Europe, Paris and all.
And so um,  he- They were seeing each other a lot and everything and um, his wife heard about it and everything.
Then she used to drink all the time, she'd drink and  everything and  begin to get boring  and everything and she began to get sick of it and everything.
And so,  it went on and then he bought her a house, Rae.
He bought her a house and they said when they-  when sh-  when he get divorced from the other wife then  he'd marry her and all and then it went on.
And then she w- sh-  One evening it was a fashion show, they were putting on a fashion show,  and they designed- she designed, Rae, a  uh, wedding dress.
It was called wedding in June and she designed this dress  and everything and  then the wife  of the Marine or  soldier walked in  and she says um, is this um,  your gown, just like that  and he says no it's just a  fashion you know to put out for June.
Says um-  then she says something about  well,  you'll be getting married I hope to my husband and everybody turned around and said oh and all that.
And then one night  she was coming back from a party, she was  going to a party,  and  her husband got in the car and they were in a accident.
And then he became paralyzed and everything.
And it was sad and everything then their two kids  came to Rae's house the one he built for her.
And then they stayed with her, they  asked her could they stay with her and all.
It was fun.
It was-  it was  just sad a little bit but it was alright.
I cried too cause it was- Yeah it was sad.
Yeah a cat.
I always loved a cat all the time.
I don't know.
I like 'em when they're little and everything.
And I had a-  Um, my father  when he went over um-  He used to take care of the zoo a lot,  and they-  He brought a chimpanzee home.
I used to dress him up all the time, put him in clothes and play mothers and everything.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
We used to have the house in Maryland,  he brought home a chimpanzee,  and I used to dress him up and play with him and  play like he's a real doll,  a baby and everything.
Mm-hm.
My father he trained it before he came home and everything and  it was in-  it was in a great big box and everything with a  blue and white ribbon tied around it and  blue paper and everything and I asked him what was in it and he wouldn't tell me.
So he put it in my room one night  I don't know- I don't know what  night it was but anyway he put it in my room.
Then I heard all this noise and then I come in and I ask my father what was in the box and- So the next morning he- put it on- He was on the bed when I woke up  and everything.
But he was fun though I had him for about  two years and then I had to-  Then he had to go away  he got too big and then he had to go away.
That was all.
Then- No, no.
Mm-mm.
And then- Yup.
He's cute.
Then I had a  d- um, dog, his name was Mopsy he's sweet.
He's still-  No he's not, he's dead now.
But he was the laziest old dog.
He wouldn't do nothing.
He wouldn't even bark at the people that come to the door or nothing and strange people that didn't concern us or anything,  he wouldn't even bark he'd just sit there and look at 'em like they're crazy or something so  my father he shot him and everything.
That was the end of him.
The um, chimpanzee.
No.
Well,  we don't take chemistry now,  but I like chemistry I have a chemistry set at home and one night  my um, sister and I, we were  making experiment  and we put all these- mixed all these acids together.
We almost had a explosion and everything in the house and I told my mother,  she killed me- almost killed me.
Talk.
Well-  Well um,  we starting this-  I don't know if we really gonna have this group or not but we sing and carry on  and then we come up here and we watch TV and everything.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah the  Tighten Up and the um,  What's that other dance?
The horse.
The horse- Well you just-  The tighten up is when you sway from side to side and um,  the horse is you move back and forth and everything and you put your own motions in it and  steps in it.
Just like that.
Mm-mm.
Who hollered at me a lot?
None of 'em really did.
Oh it was one teacher um, her name was Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
She was our math teacher and everything.
She'd holler at this boy named RD-NAME-3.
He's always doing things wrong and everything and he holler at this boy.
He  run out the classroom, he  go out the classroom whenever he feels like it or things like that.
Other than that he was alright.
Mr.
RD-NAME-1 he was my science teacher.
I likes the clothes he wear and he's- Oh he- the suits he- he matches- his suits match his all- his suits  they match all his ties and everything and it's real cool.
He used to wear  glasses that had a little tint in it- a half tint in it.
I had a crush on him but that was all.
Mm-hm.
Yeah,  he was.
I don't know.
He- he cracked a lot of jokes while he was teaching I guess that's why he was so great.
You know.
Things like that.
But he was alright.
Oh.
In the uh, classroom um,  it was a-  it was a-  lot of t- um, paper in the um, trash ba- um, trash can.
So the teacher come in and I said I'll set the-  If you clear out I'd set the  trashcan on fire so he set the trashcan on fire, the teacher come in,  and she took off her coat, her coat got all burned up when she took off her coat and it was one day,  it was after school  I got mad with this teacher and-  and um,  I asked one of the janitors for some water.
Put some water in the bucket.
So it's a big  thing up on the door and everything to hold the stuff on.
So we  mixed it up we  put a lot of soap suds in it, a lot of bleach in it and Ajax,  everything,  everything.
And he come in and  I asked him it was a string on where the  bucket was attached and the string was attached on to the bucket.
And I asked him to pull the string down because it wouldn't come down and the water fell all over him,  everything bleach got all over his suit and everything.
And he asked who did it and no one would say anything we just left,  just left the classroom and then  I got- I always get detention slips.
All the time.
Talking all the time.
I talk all the time.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Nothing.
Oh yeah we go down to the pool and mess around,  and  things like that but  just sit around and talk.
Do nothing.
Yeah.
Well he's in Canada now.
That's right.
He's in Canada now and um,  well, I been doing things that I shouldn't be doing really but-  Really I didn't ask to go with him but  he just insist  you know and things like that.
But really I didn't-  I-  you know I didn't-  I liked him a whole lot and all but-  I didn't like him enough to go with him but  you know I just  went with him to make him feel good.
That was all.
I mean,  I like RD-NAME-2 a whole lot, we call him Batman  and now  they call me Batgirl.
You know.
And so um,  he's alright and everything, he's lots of fun.
But  now I like this guy named RD-NAME-1.
See I-  I known him all my life  and everything  and he knew me ever since I was in kindergarten and everything And I like him.
And so,  I been flirting with everybody.
That is the truth I have been flirting with everybody.
So now, Everybody's gonna tell RD-NAME-2 when uh, he gets back.
Yeah they gonna tell everybody and when RD-NAME-2 comes back I know he's gonna get mad.
Everybody say they gonna kick my butt  but, He's not gonna do that, he promised that he wouldn't hit me if I said that I didn't like him anymore and I quit him,  so.
Better not do anything.
Well- Mm.
Let's see now.
He'd be tall.
Tall and um,  you know,  little older than I am.
I like 'em older than I am.
And  he must have a car.
He must have a car.
And  I- No not exactly, just a plain  car, not  no  messed up car but a  you know,  nice car.
And  I like 'em  to dress good.
I like 'em to dress well  and everything I don't like 'em coming around my house and then meet my mother looking like a tramp or nothing like that.
And everything like that  and  you know,  intelligent not ignorant  and all.
And um-  And  that's about all.
No.
No.
No.
Well,  we all listen to everybody really.
I guess, don't we?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah.
Well, you'd have to be hip to everything.
I mean,  not everything but some things, you know.
You can't be stuck up and all.
You know,  not knowing everything but you know  on the right level you know like mix with everybody.
And have fun and  all.
Wouldn't have to like to do?
Or- Oh.
Well,  can't say but    I don't know.
Um, well,  I probably-  I'm going to college to be an interior decorator, I want to anyway.
I don't know.
Long as you get something in your brains and everything.
Stay there.
And all.
I'd buy a house.
Then I'd buy-   Then I'd buy  wardrobe  of everything.
And  then I'd buy two cars.
A Cadillac.
And a small car.
Oh we usually visit our relatives and we go out and  you know the different places.
And usually I don't celebrate Christmas with my rela-  uh, with my family, I just go down to Maryland and celebrate, down there they have this Air Force-  This base down there called the Patuxent Air Force Base.
And down there they have a club  on- You know,  during holidays and  on every Friday night and we went down there.
And we had a lot of fun  you know.
We really had a lot of fun.
Let me see.
Neatest Christmas-  Um-      Um- It was a-  Oh yeah, a Barbie doll.
I always wanted a Barbie doll  and everything and  I got a lot of clothes and a  kitchen set.
Yeah  that's right.
A kitchen set.
Like mother's.
Go around scaring people.
All of 'em were funny looking.
Oh yeah, um,  I had a-  I made up a costume a fat lady, I put a lot of pillows and everything and- and lot of makeup all over my face and  hair and  all that  jazz.
And everything.
Oh.
Um,  during the  you know,  holidays or?
Oh it was one time um- Yeah.
Oh,  it was in Maryland and the snow was real deep outside and I wanna go outside so bad but um,  I-  Somehow or another I cut my  baby toe on a razor blade and-  and it got  pus in it  and my- I went to  j- I  jabbed a pin into it and I think and-  and the pus squirt up like a water fountain.
It squirt up just like a water fountain  and my mother and my grandmother said I had  gangrene in it.
And I was scared half to death and I looked it up in the encyclopedia and everything and it said,  close to death and I was crying I was telling my grandmother, oh I'm'a die, I'm'a die.
I was crying and carrying on.
Well- Well it is gonna happen but,  heaven knows when.
They don't know when or nothing like that.
It happens, it just happens.
That's all.