Marbles,  mumblety peg,  checkers,  chess, Uh it's with of uh icepick.
You throw it in the ground  and uh  when it's your chance to come in,  it sticks  if not you lose your chance and someone else goes.
Well it's just of uh,  say about  nine  or ten different moves in the hand of different ways to throw it.
Mm,  no it's just the one point is just to- to use an icepick.
Well, you'd have a bumper,  and you would have say  maybe ten  maybe put five in the- a circle, and what  you try to do is take the other man's marbles  by knocking 'em out the circle.
Yes you do.
Checkers?
Uh that's um round disc,  black and red  on a checker board,  the object is to  take  all the other man's checkers and keep him from taking yours.
Jumping.
Um,  just blind man's  bluff I think it is.
Th- that is the one you uh  close your eyes and count a certain amount,  and then uh  everybody hides and  you try to find that one person or  whoever is happy to explain.
He's it.
that  I don't remember, I couldn't say.
Um, Not that I can recall.
Might have but I couldn't say for sure.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Well,  I would run after you  and  tag you and uh  you would run after someone else,  and tag them and they would run after someone else and it's in a cycle, so.
It's the same thing  as uh blind man's bluff as you say.
No that's the only two.
Mm.
Uh  right now I like The Outcasts.
Uh  well I- I just like the way the story's based.
This one uh about the um well it's the uh  black fella and white fella,  and they are always  against each other but help each other out all the time    and that's how th- each story is based on,  th-  one of 'em get in trouble and the other one goes after him.
They're bounty hunters.
No I couldn't say.
It's been discontinued you see  Yeah.
No I don't recall that one.
Uh Mission Impossible  when I get a chance to see that.
Mm.
It  up  when um  they were going to this foreign country,  and they were trying to uh  uh, liberate  I think this w- wa- a prince,  if I'm not mistaken and  they had to go over a wall,  climb a roof,  and go down through a um,  this- the uh  ceiling.
And uh  that was it, really  you know.
Um They had a- a little gun that shoots  uh  a rope  across  a w- you know a certain length of distance.
And they have uh  all types of um  electrical  uh plans that they use,  make ups.
Yes.
It's a collie,  his name is Rex.
No, he's uh about a year old,  I bought him in New York.
I have him  registered  at the uh American Kennel Club.
Mm-hm.
Nah, ju- lay down and   s-sit up that's about it.
Uh no.
I didn't live in a neighborhood where I could have one.
Commercial art.
Uh well I had an opportunity to go to school for it  but I  gave that up  went to refrigeration  and air conditioning.
Yes.
Uh all I can remember is the regular courses that they would have  you know uh  reading and writing and  arithmetic  you know.
Going to high school well I uh  was on the drill team and swam.
Right.
Oh yeah?
No.
Yes we did,  but it was uh-  like  it was segregated schools at the time,  it was just the uh  black schools competing.
No we never did.
Yeah that's alright that's what I did- that's what we did too.
We had the best swimming team for about  eight years though.
Uh freestyle.
We- well it depends on what season it was.
Like it was uh football  if it was football season, baseball if it was baseball season, or basketball.
Well I'd say we would play in the alley and play ball there you know.
I had one teacher in um  junior high  I think his name was RD-NAME-1,  he used to have a ruler and had a bad habit of hitting everybody on the hands you know   and he used to take us in the bathroom if we didn't like it and fight us you know and win.
Yeah.
and win.
That's right  This was about the um  eighth grade, something like that.
I mean like if uh  he says keep quiet  and somebody says something and  he'll say stand up,  so you stand up.
So he says, stick your hand out  now if you don't stick your hand out  you have to go to the bathroom and fight him  yeah  No, they wanted it  because if he ever  went back they found out about it you would get whipped anyway   so what's the difference  So  No I haven't had that problem, no  But I've seen what they do with some of the bigger boys   Mm-hm.
Yes I have been bad.
Yes they were  and I was doing something wrong so I knew I- it was really my fault so.
Mm well, like throwing a eraser at somebody you know  s- something like that or a piece of chalk.
Uh she was my um m-  art teacher.
Her name was RD-NAME-1 I think it was.
and she was about the best teacher I've had.
She was teaching commercial art to me  and uh  she uh could understand the kids.
We had a small class anyway  and she really just  chipped in and  put her time out  for it.
Uh I think understanding.
Right   And I found that out in New York.
Yes uh-huh.
Well I am- went to school,  a private school in New York  for air conditioning.