Uh, I guess just the usual ones.
Baseball and football and basketball.
Things of that nature.
Yes, I played Hopscotch.
You just uh   take some chalk and you draw on the sidewalk uh,  squares and  uh,  uh, various numbers and things like that.
Well, well uh, one person  stands by a tree or something and covers his eyes  and counts a certain number,  and uh, rest of the teammates go out and  hide.
Then  at the end of the uh,  numbers, he tries to find 'em.
Uh, usually just uh,  count out or flip a coin or something like that.
Not that I remember.
Oh yeah, vaguely yeah.
Uh, I never did play Kick the Can, no.
Yes I played marbles.
Uh, well you uh,  take a stick  and uh, draw a ring in the sand,  a large ring, and then uh,  you take the marbles and uh, you try to uh-  Can't go beyond the line with your finger.
You take the marble, try to toss in to the center of the uh,  uh,  circle and try to knock out some of the other marbles into the outer side of the perimeter.
I watch some, yes.
Uh, I like The Avengers and uh,  uh, Johnny Carson,  uh,   uh,  Rowan and Martin Laugh In, I like that a lot.
Not this week, no I didn't.
Mm, gee, I r- I really don't think I could cause I haven't been watching much television this week and I wouldn't remember any-  any of it.
Well I think it's uh-  it's a lot better than most of the  comedies that have come out this year, and-  and uh- I think it's- it's a really funny show.
Yes, I go to the movies quite a lot.
Uh,  I saw In Cold Blood.
Uh, it was ab- Yes, so it was about uh, this uh, two killers, and uh-  out in Kansas.
And they uh, traveled uh,  great distance and  killed uh, this family, the Clutter family.
And uh,  uh, it was a- all about uh, their motives and everything  and how uh, that  they- try to bring out how they-  they uh, got very little profit out of it and  just more less got a radio and about forty dollars and-  to kill the entire family.
And uh, yeah but I thought it was very good.
Well it was supposed to be that uh, uh-  They thought that there were-  was gonna be ten thousand dollars in a safe out there, but uh, Mr.
Clutter, the rancher, didn't have a safe at all.
And uh,    the uh-  one of the uh, killers,  uh,  when it was sort of  uh-  He was uh,  s-  sposta be uh,  some- more or less psychologically bent towards killing anyway So he went out there and uh, they had a shot gun and they  tied the victims up  and put tape across their mouth and then uh,  tied 'em up with clothesline, and- and then  shot all four of 'em.
And then,  after that they uh-  they left and then went to Mexico for awhile.
And then finally they eventually got caught  uh, in Kansas.
Uh, the uh,  Kansas Bureau of Investigation finally caught up with them,  and uh,  Kansa- in uh,  n- in Las Vegas.
I think.
Yeah, they stole a car.
After they uh-  they got back in the country and then they uh- they were  stealing a car, and they were going to pick up uh,  some of the stuff that they'd left at a different place, and uh, they got caught with that.
Mm-hm.
Uh- Yeah, that was about uh,  this  killing down in the South,  and this uh, Sidney Poitier  uh, played a uh,  colored detective from uh, the North.
And uh, Rod Steiger uh,  a S- uh, Southern cop,  and uh, it was all about how they would uh-  they have,  you know, differences opinion and all, things like that about how to solve the crime.
When he first got into town, they didn't know he was a police officer so he was arrested as a suspect for the murder.
And uh,  and of course they found out later that he-  he really didn't  kill anybody.
And uh,  it was more or less  a play off between the two-  two stereotypes, you know.
Uh, the best movie I ever saw?
I guess I'd have to say uh,  Spartacus probably.
That was uh,  uh,  It was m-  like a  uh, kind of like a Biblical type picture.
It was uh- uh-  Gee, it's been so long.
I can hardly remember it.
Uh- Right yeah.
He was a slave and he was leading a the slaves in a- in a revolt,  an uprising.
And uh,  it was-  I liked it a very lot.
Um,    probably uh,  Planet of the Apes, I guess, just recently.
That was uh-  It was Charlton Heston and uh,  it was supposed to be w-  where uh, they were in a space ship and they uh-  They went out in space and  something happened.
They crash landed on this- what they thought was another planet.
And uh, the whole uh, civilization was turned around whereas the-  the apes were uh-  had developed into uh, intelligent beings.
And the uh,  m-  the men on that planet  uh-  Man was like the apes are on- on Earth.
And uh,  uh,  Heston uh- they thought Heston was just another man.
And course they couldn't speak, but Heston could.
And uh, so finally  they prove- he proved that he- you know, he could.
And uh, they thought he was more or less a threat to uh,  the civilization because they-  they thought he might be surpass the apes.
It was real good.
Yeah.
Yeah I had a dog once.
It was uh,  white Cocker Spaniel.
A small one.
Uh, no- not r-  well s- more or less yeah.
It uh-  I had a dog for about uh, f- six years,  and uh,    we-  uh,  we go around, do things together, you know.
Like I was- I was very young when we had the dog.
No, I'm not in school right now.
I was in uh, academic course.
Took uh-  You want- You want my su- what subjects I took?
Took uh,  English,  and uh,  Geometry,  uh-  Oh, let's see.
Uh,  Problems of Democracy,  uh,  uh,    S- Gym.
Stuff like that.
Well uh,  I l- I liked uh, English alright, but I- Not the grammar part.
I liked uh,  the literature part of it fairly well.
Much better than the grammar.
Well I thought it was m- Yeah, I thought it was more interesting.
Uh,  usually get hung up on a lot of  grammar rules.
You know, it's pretty boring, and it's-  it's day after day.
You know, you're like a parrot.
You just keep repeating all these different rules.
Much more interesting to-  to read something then t-  then just to  sit in class and hold up your hand.
Oh yeah, quite a few.
What were they like?
Uh, well,  ps- I guess you know, like when you didn't have your homework prepared or something like that or uh,  or s-  taking a little extra time for lunch.
Or uh, smoking in the bathroom, something like that.
I went to um, RD-SCHOOL-5.
Silver Spring.
Oh it's a real nice school.
It's real-  real large and  it's-  it's- The way it's situated, it's more or less like- almost like a campus really.
You know, it's-  like the- the gym is across a big  gigantic field, and then the-  the front entrance has  pillars in the front and everything.
Sort of modeled aft-  looks something like you would picture college to look like, you know.
Uh,  s-  the s- Sonny-  What are you talking about?
Sonny Jurgensen?
I don't think he ever went there, no.
Not that I remember.
I don't remember.
Uh-   Gee,  n- I r- I really couldn't uh, say who I thought m- my best teacher was really.
Uh, Mm, uh, well I remember uh,  uh,  one teacher uh, Mr.
RD-NAME-1  who taught uh, POD.
And uh, I thought- I thought he was a very-  very good teacher.
He's-  you know, he seemed like he knew what he was talking about.
Yeah, well there was a couple.
Yeah, uh,  it was uh- there was an old uh,  an old man that  taught uh, Shop.
And uh, he was sort of a pain in the neck.
You know, he'd-  he- Most of the students didn't get along with him very well.
He was- Well he was- Well he was- he was sort of old, and he couldn't-  he couldn't relate to uh,  anybody-  anybody you know, younger.
And he was sort of out of it,  more or less,  and uh,  he would uh-  He had all these old ideas.
He wouldn't-  he wouldn't th-  uh, think of anything-  any new ideas.
He would-  he would uh,  just get  bogged down things, you know.
Uh,  let's see.
Well yeah, uh,   well they pulled a lot tricks but I can't think of uh, just anything offhand, uh-   It was some- something like maybe uh, uh,  something like a frog in a drawer or something like that.
That's about the only thing I can remember that was outstanding.
I would remember.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah well most of 'em are.
There's uh- There's a couple of little older.
Uh, most of 'em anywhere between  eighteen and twenty two.
Maybe one to two of my friends might be a couple years older than that.
Uh,  well no, d- We don't actually have any leader, no.
Not really.
Uh- No, well I know what you mean.
Like somebody who makes the plans and decides what they're gonna do that night and all that.
Well uh,  not really.
Not- not in that sense, but uh,  there- there's one guy I guess that you- that-  He has a car, and uh,  he uh- he has a real good job and has lots of money and h- he has a- uh, he- He knows where a lot of uh, parties and things like that are.
And  we usually uh-  He had a lot of good ideas a lot of times.
Uh,  friend of mine uh, speaks Spanish, yes.
Oh I have- Yeah I- there's about three or-  three or four  colored people, yes.
No, I'm over by Dupont Circle.
Yes, I think it's- Over there?
Yeah I think it's a good neighborhood.
I like it.
It's uh-  it's- it's- it's- plus side it's convenient to downtown.
You can walk to work.
And uh,  something- that I like the atmosphere around there a lot.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Well uh, I suppose he would just start uh, hanging around the places that we w- that we- we frequent.
And uh,    then uh,  he would- If he didn't know anybody in our group or didn't know any of the friends of anybody that uh- I know, I guess uh,  he'd just  m-  would maybe be seen around or  might- he might s-  strike up a casual conversation someplace or  I don't know.
You know, depends on how bad he wanted to hang with us so.
I'm uh eventually take a- an uh, art course, probably commercial art, go into that.
No, not- not right now.
I do a lot of sketches.
I don't do any painting.
Either uh, semi abstract or still lifes, s- something like that.
I'm- I'm-  right now, I'm pretty basic right now because uh, I'm  tryna learn the fundamentals more or less, you know?
Well I th- I think it's- it's- it's- it's a good deal.
I'm not- I'm- I'm not advanced enough to go into uh, oils and paints or anything.
I mean, I'm not that good yet.
And uh,  it's something you can do, like instead of just uh,  punching a clock so m- still feel like you're-  you're doing something.
Like, if you're not mechanically inclined, you can't create that way.
So you can, you know, create maybe  you know,  in that way on- on the paper, you know.
Oh there's a lot of art schools, yeah.
It's Corcoran or you could take a course at GW or-  or American University.
There's a lot of schools.
Well uh,  Corcoran has a reputation of being real good, but I- uh,  most pe- most people that I- I-  I associate with consider uh,  courses at American University as real good.
Uh,  no, not- not right now, no.
A couple of my friends are interested in the same thing I do and we uh,  you know ex-  exchange ideas and stuff like that.
Yeah I have yes.
But not- I- I- Not usually not in a circle, usually uh,  down off of uh, P Street or somewhere around there where you get a good view.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Which holiday are you speaking of?
Christmas?
Well they just, you know, celebrate and I guess way m- most people do that celebrate Christmas.
You know, Christmas tree, presents, all that.
Uh, well,   I would  get a costume from  some store and uh,  rest of our friends would-  would  dress up in  different outfits and  go around the neighborhood and  knock on doors, you know.
Trick or Treat and things like that.
Get candy.
Set up a few window stuff like that.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah, I kn- I was in a uh, car accident where I thought that was gonna happen.
What do you mean?
No I- I- No, I was uh- I was on the uh-  on  the right hand side of the driver on the passenger's side.
And uh,  we were  going at about uh,  about sixty miles an hour,  and we had a green light,  and somebody  coming from the other way  ran the uh-    uh, ran the red light.
So we hit him broad side.
It was uh-  And so I went- I went through the uh, windshield.
My head did, yeah.
But uh,  I wasn't hurt.
But I- I thought just a- just about the-  the minute before I saw the car, you know, I really thought that was gonna be it.
No just- just slightly.
I had a l- small cut back here but it- it was nothing really.
So I was just very lucky.
Very fortunate.
Uh, yeah, there was uh,  a boy in the back seat.
Uh,  he had a- a broken arm and a few broken ribs.
He went uh-  hit the uh-  his head on the steering wheel as he went over the back seat.
I mean hit- Yeah, hit his arm and something else.
His ribs.
Yeah I know.
Right.
Yeah sure.
It's time to go, you're gonna go.