Wife used to say I talk too much but-  Mm.
Oh yeah?
Hm.
Well, not- the incident that I was talking about, uh, as a kid,  I can remember at-  well, prior to nineteen fifty  four, I believe, in Washington,  uh, as you know, there were segregated playgrounds and what have you.
And uh, we used- used to be a group of us that used to play ball together,  and um, I remember one fella's name.
I don't remember the rest of 'em's name-  the- remember their nicknames, but I don't remember their real names, but I remember one particular fella,  RD-NAME-2.
And uh,  we used to play on this little park that I was telling you about earlier,  uh, up on, uh, First between New York Avenue and uh-  New York Avenue, Elm Street and First Street.
But there was a  uh, white pray- playground  right there at um,  First and O, and First and  New York Avenue.
And every evening, we used to get on the playground and play ball,  and the recreation  um, people would come on duty after working hours or what have you,  and they would chase us off.
And um, the white fellows used to run just like we did.
They didn't know wh- Well, I don't know whether they knew why they were running, or just what, but they used to run -  and I know it- wh- wh- Many a time, that uh,  we have had torn pants and what have you from running, jumping over the playground fence  to get to the  um,  lot behind the uh,  school, uh, behind the paper-  Andrew's Paper Place, I believe.
Andrew's Paper Factory or something of that sort,  um,  to play ball because we couldn't play on the playground.
Well it does, really.
Now, what- L- looking at my children, they s- take so many of these things for granted.
They go to concerts.
They  play on the playground.
They um-  So many of these things, they don't even know anything about that- I don't think- about that.
I never remind 'em up, and I don't bring it up, you know.
And the only uh, reminder that they get, generally, of course, is through television and  the  times that we're having now of course.
But,  the- by the same token, I want them to be aware of it.
I'm not-  Don't misunderstand me.
I'm not uh, trying to hide anything from 'em, but I don't uh-  If we s- if I talk about now, I talk about it jokingly.
Matter of fact, I've seen one of the fellas, uh-  uh!- uh- er- Very strange thing happened.
Um,  an, uh-  over on um,  Perry Street.
I lived on Perry Street in Northeast,  and uh,  police knocked on the door, um,  collecting for the Police Boys Club.
And he said, uh, I know you from somewhere, you know.
I can't uh,  place your face, you know.
Have uh, you been in prison recently?
I said, well, I don't- maybe I have.
I don't- I didn't recall whether I'd be in there for any particular reason or not, but uh,  anyway, haps- We were talking.
He lived at forty eight or forty nine or fifty one  New York Avenue, and I lived at forty nine Elm Street.
And uh,  we  uh,  had played together as kids.
He didn't know my name.
I didn't know his, uh, other than maybe nicknames.
And uh, then we started talking about uh,  different things that happened over the years, and some of the incidents that happened down on uh-  in that area,  and of course he happened to be  patrolling the  Fourth Street, Rhode Island Avenue and that area now.
And this was some of the area that we used to come into as kids.
And um,  I had gr- My grandparent that lived on uh, Elm Street, and this is one that through the years, uh  even though I lived most of my time- I went to school in Anacostia,  through the years, I  still frequented  the uh, Northwest area.
This  area bounded by uh,  North Cal Street, New York Avenue, and what have you.
And uh,  we talked about uh,  some of the things we used to do, and the ball playing and  the incidents that happened back then that of course, we had no  rhyme or reason for it that particular time, but now that we are older, look back on, we know why they happened and   what have you.
Mm-hm.
Yes, um,  uh, the lady that I was spoke of, uh, earlier,  um, that I worked with for the last  twelve years or so- ten or twelve years, off and on, but now we are are working uh-  She's- I'm the coordinator, and she's in charge of training,  and she's Austrian.
And uh,  she speaks um,  Austrian-  I mean uh, German and  French.
Uh, we both have had Russian.
She- uh, she knows S- Czechoslovakian.
Um,  what else?
Um,  several of uh,  the languages- related languages- Slavic languages,  and uh, but her native tongue is German of course.
Mm-hm.
Uh, certain things, uh- of course, after- a- a- after you've been  associated with a person over a period of time, you get to a point where you  ignore it.
You don't pay any attention to it, but I notice every once in awhile, she will say yah.
Uh, and uh,  uh, she-  let me see.
She uses  uh, idioms of course still.
Uh,  gosh and hemel And uh, things of that sort.
Um, but I think a lot of times, she does this, purposely playing.
And-  but um,  sh- We have um,  been associated together for many many years, and  we consider ourselves very good friends.
Matter of fact, she calls sometimes on the telephone, and uh,  we talk for an hour or two, and it starts off maybe about something at work, and then it goes into  a concert or a play or a movie or a book.
I have a number of her books.
She has a number of mine.
So, w- we have  had this relationship for a number of years now.
Mm-hm.
I think so.
Um, my interests- I think that-  I've always wanted to um-  I used to have a desire to be a um,  uh, college professor.
Uh, I wanted to teach History,  but I never had the uh,  inclination to um,  do as much  um, studying, in the area- Or concentrated study,  to um,  prepare myself for this.
Uh, I don't know whether it's because uh,  that I wanted to do things too fast or just what it was, but I think now,  as I look back over the years, if I had just spent uh,  a concentrated  six or seven years in school, that um, possibly I would have-  be in a- in this area now.
I'm not sure of it- this would have been the direction that I would have gone, but uh,  I do like history.
I like s- s- civics.
I like um,  um,  government.
Uh,  I have uh-  I did work in uh,  the-  party, um-  politics a little bit.
Um, the-  by being a federal employee, I couldn't participate too actively, but uh,  I did  um,  in nineteen sixty and nineteen sixty four,  work actively in uh,  politics as-  Behind the scenes,  so to s- speak.
And um,  I had a very interesting experience just this- earlier part of this year.
I uh,  um,  had a- was put in the hospital for a minor  operation,  and my roommate was chairman of uh,  uh, History Department at one of the Universities here in the city.
And uh, he uh, had written a book, um,  um, I considered a- an authority on it- He is considered an authority in uh,  Latin Ameri- American affairs,  and uh, we used to have some very interesting discussions in the school.
You may- you might be thinking RD-NAME-4?
Professor RD-NAME-4?
Do you know him?
Doctor RD-NAME-4?
Mm-hm.
Up at George Washington University.
But anyhow, we- we were roommates, and we had very interesting discussions.
And um,  I think that a lot of things that he was asking me, he was asking me from the Negro stand point of-  point of view.
And then uh,  uh,  then after we warmed up to each other, and he probably got to s-  th- You know,  the feeling- I mean uh,  how I felt about these things, then uh, we were-  and I got to know how he felt about the certain things,  we were able to discuss uh,  the overall s- world situation without too many  reservations .
But uh, he was picking me first, and I was picking him.
But uh,  we- I enjoyed- I enjoyed my hospital stay, and uh,  um, I've talked to him since then.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Well, I think maybe my,  um,  capitalist- I'd try to make more money probably.
But uh, I don't know.
I probably would travel,  uh, quite a bit.
Uh, I would like to travel.
Uh, I would like to make girls around while they are at an impressionable age, and while they are young,  and um, let them see the world.
See some of the people that they're reading about and d- and discussing.
Um,  I don't- I'd  probably would go both to the Orient and to the um, um,  Europe.
Uh-  My grandfather spent quite a few years in the Orient, and- During the Spanish American War and after Spanish American War.
Matter fact he spent ten year- ten years in the Orient.
And he- And I think maybe this is where my interest in history came from.
Um,  we used to talk  extensively  about uh- Maybe that's where I  u- g-  talk so much  about that-   We used to talk extensively about um,  his experiences and uh, his travels.
And um,  i-  sometimes in some of the uh, things that he  um,  foresaw, I guess,  some of the things that he talked about that would happen and did happen um, way back in the- during World War II.
And he talked about things that would happen after World War II,  and sure enough, uh, a lot of them have come to pass.
But um,  and I think possibly- I don't know whether I attribute this to his travels or just to uh,  um,  I don't know what you attribute it to, but I would like to travel,  and uh, possibly-  That's about the thing that I-  Oh, of course-  um-  I dare say that maybe a few more materials things than I have, but there are no  overall material things that-  essentual, as far as I'm concerned to  life, but uh,  I probably would have them.
Mm-mm.
Well um,  I ha-   Uh, t- t- It's quite a-  Well, we've- First thing, we have uh, a number of contracts with uh, different uh,  commercial  binders and also with the government printing office.
We have a number of service divisions-  service divisions, that send us material,  uh, unbound,  monographs, uh,  periodicals,  um,  collected works of one kind or another  that have to uh,  be  put or sent to  the binders or  the processors  to  determine what type of preservation- what type of uh, binding that they're going to  use to preserve this material.
And uh, I have a number of-  Let's see.
Four, five, six-  I think it's about fourteen people  that uh, are constantly  um,  working  this area.
Each- each person is doing something different,  and uh, if-  All day long, I have as- Each person asking a different question  but uh,  I don't think that I spend more than uh, one solid hour- other than early morning, possibly cleaning off things that have been piled on my desk,  uh, at my desk.
The rest of the day is uh, circulating around  to see the individuals uh,  traveling- Uh, um,  processing their material in the area  in which they're supposed to.
Um,  um,  it's a general um-  It's kind of hard to describe unless you actually saw the operation.
It's-  We are  in the process of a reorganization.
We are in the process of a  general revamping.
We are going to uh,  send more and more things to  commercial.
We are setting up a restoration   program in the building,  and a lot of the material that we are getting now, we are  planning on having restored by our own craftsmen.
Um,  s-  twice this week-  Once, the early part of the week, I went to Quantico,  Virginia, to um,  uh,  try to devise or set up a binding- or help to set up a  binding program or to give them some  help in setting up their program down there, as they have a small number of in- in-  in uh, comparison to the amount of material that we  um-  We s- send out something like a hundred and ninety- two hundred ninety thousand piece- uh, volumes a year  to commercial or  government printing office binders.
So you can imagine  with uh, say a work staff of fourteen people and that number of pieces coming through our office.
It is quite a um, beehive,  but we still travel to uh,  to- around to other areas to  try to help devise a standard  program for preservation of materials, uh, binding of materials, my office is.
I'm in the preservation office as- as a whole,  but the wh- the binding office is one office of the  preservation office.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Well, um,  we generally um,  put the Christmas tree up uh, around Christmas Eve- Or might put it up a couple of days ahead of Christmas Eve.
We put the Christmas tree up Christmas Eve, and uh  um,  generally on Christmas Eve, it's uh,  preparation, wrapping presents, and  people stopping in, uh,  wishing us cheer and what have you and uh,  let's see.
Uh, Christmas Day we  travel around to the different relatives of course, um,  during Christmas day.
S- On occasions we have gone to church, but we- This is not a regular  thing.
Um,  it's more or less visiting relatives, and uh, exchanging of gifts and uh,  a um,  sort of a-  We usually have uh, spirits that we put out for  people who come in and uh-  It's more or less a family sort of uh, occasion generally.
This Christmas had been a little different from past Christmases because this is the first Christmas- I don't know whether you know it or not, but my wife  uh, passed away  a year or so ago, and this Christmas was a little different from uh,  past Christmases.
So uh,  m- m- but we managed to make it through it.
Uh- Mm-hm.
N- I was in a automobile um,  d- When we were in high school,  um,  I think the year- The- we- The  year of graduation, the  senior year, the last month- or week or so- before school closed,  um,  we rented a automobile.
We got one of the fellas to get his older brother to rent us an automobile, and we rented a automobile, and we  went down to um,  somebody's beach home.
I don't remember whose beach home at the time, but we went to somebody's beach home, and in  process of going down there- It was a cool day, just  about like it is right now.
And uh,  we f- got down there, and we stayed around a little while.
We didn't  couldn't go in the water.
We couldn't uh, do what we went down there to do, so to speak,  so um,  we um,  finally uh, ended up uh, turning around and driving  back to Washington, and we drove very fast coming back,  and the car skidded.
And um,  we f- ended up in a-  sort of a hay field- uh, corn field.
And I had just dozed off at the time, but um,  um,  and I don't think I've been asleep in a automobile since then   but uh, we were heading in the opposite direction,  and uh,  I remember pushing the car out of the corn field  and getting it back up on the road, and we came on back to Washington.
But um,  that's about as close that I can remember in my  death- adventure, as far as death.
Now, I've been sick a couple of times that  I didn't know whether I was going to make it or not, but I wasn't that seriously ill, but it just seemed as though-   but uh,  I was in very bad pain with a kidney stone.
And I didn't know just  what it was all about.
I didn't know whether I had a ruptured uh,  appendix or just what it was.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Well, I had to develop that attitude because of um, a number of things.
I uh,  sort of have a philosophy that you roll with the punches, you know?
And you um,  uh,  you just have to accept  things, and this is my attitude now.
I might be very wrong, uh- I  have  felt that I just accept this  to a certain degree.
If there's nothing that I can do about it, there's nothing that I can change,  then um,  I have to go along with the- In case of my wife's death,  for instance.
Uh, she had the best medical care that we possibly  knew about  and uh,  uh, she had something- She had a- a rheumatic heart condition when she was young that we didn't know about until two months before she went in- three months before she went in the hospital.
\Aj And uh, of course, uh, she had two major operations, and the second operation, she didn't make it.
Uh,  but, uh, we had no knowledge that it was anything wrong with her heart at all, in all the years that we've been married.
She had two children.
We have two children.
We had uh,  a number of things.
We had a number of plans  that um,  that will, of course will never be fulfilled in that area.
But um,  I've-  I have- still have two daughters, so I feel to a certain degree- Now what am I going to do?
Fold up or  continue to try to  make the best of the situation, you know.
And uh, s- I think that uh, my wife left enough  with the girls.
Uh, when I say, left enough, the- they-  Certain basic training that the girls have that um,  it's been made the job somewhat easier for me in trying to bring them through these  last couple of year- last year or so.
Last-  It's been almost  two years since we- the actual time she got sick, went in the hospital and- and the time that she was operated on and what have you, the time she died.
And it's been just the three of us since then,  but I don't generally worry about my girls getting into any difficulty or anything of that sort.
I feel that uh,  they basically have the back- the training and what have you, and that uh, if anything- if they get out of line or anything happens  it's gonna happen anyhow, there's nothing that I can  basically do other than try to instill  certain concepts of life in them emphasis-    So, there's a- Uh-huh.