Well, um  tag,  hopscotch, and  Blind Man's Bluff, and  other little games like that.
You'd  put on a uh  blindfold,  and everybody-  usually you play it inside-  and everybody would uh  hide somewhere.
And you would just walk around and try to find them,  blindfolded.
Well the  first person that you caught, they would be 'it' next time.
Yeah well,  I don't know.
One way would be everybody put their feet in a circle and,  there would be a little  like  a poem, not a poem, but something that you'd say and, last one out would be 'it'.
No, I don't know.
I never said any.
It was, kind of, you know, just a rhyme where  like  something like Tarzan was in the tree, and he fell out.
And then that person would be out, and they wouldn't have to be it.
And then the last one out would be it.
No sir.
I think s-  not that, but something similar I think.
I don't remember what it was.
No, I don't.
Well  you just-  everyone just runs around, and you try to catch 'em and tag 'em.
Sometimes you may have like-  you may have  two people on a side or something,  and they try to tag everyone else.
Then they're on their side, and they have to help catch the other ones.
Yes, the same ways.
Like Hide and Seek?
Ha, yeah.
I probably did.
I really can't-  you know we just kind of make games up as we went along.
I think- well  one closes his eyes while everybody else hides, and then he  goes and looks for 'em.
Oh,  n-  I don't know.
Well they just have to wait until everyone else is found I think.
No, they have to come out and  stand up.
Just about any.
I don't know.
I like  I even look at cartoons and  somethings like Mission Impossible,  Combat, and  just about any program.
Well  let's see.
Well the last one that was- I really- I don't even know any of that.
Men,  I don't know their names but  there was a uh  president of one country, and they had to uh  get him out of the country because, uh  his-  the next top man was gonna assassinate him or something.
And uh  n- u- their mission was to  uh, go in and keep him from being assassinated.
And then there was  quite a big plot around that.
Well, um the uh, the lady that plays on there,  she uh,  there was a man, an American,  in the country,  and he had been sick or something and she was  uh,  s- supposed to be his wife, but sh- of course, she really wasn't.
And  she went into the country  and,  I don't know, for some reason  they tried to make it  look like there was another  uh secret mission or something.
And  y- she f-  was gonna try to poison him, but she wasn't gonna really do it.
And she wanted to get caught,  and she did.
And  after that  she uh,  they kind of,  the uh  man who was gonna assassinate him start getting nervous and everything  because of the uh other  the other people in the country and everything there,  and they were messing up his um    plans for the  assassination.
So uh, he tried to assassinate him  but  he was stopped by the  men from Mission Impossible.
And that's about all I remember from that.
Uh, let's see.
I haven't been in a movie for quite awhile.
I saw  James Bond: You Only Live Twice.
That's probably about the last one I saw.
RKO Keith Well um  in the-  I don't- the very first part  he was supposed to have been killed.
They-  again they-  the secret agents and everything set it up  to make it look as if he were  gonna be killed.
And then  they um  printed it in all the newspapers and everything,  so that all the other secret spies would think that he was dead.
And what they really did, they put him on a  ship,  and they sailed out to sea, and they were gonna give him like a,  I guess what they give the Naval officers  type burial.
And  they uh, had him in a,  I don't know if you call it a casket or what but,  and then  they just dropped it into the sea,  but he had on a breathing  outfit.
And a submarine picked him up and took him to shore, and  then he uh  they put him on a mission to uh-  there was a  a man.
And I think it-  he went to Texas or somewhere.
There was this man, and I don't know what he was trying to do, it looks like he was trying to take over the world or something  because he had  hundreds of men and  tanks and things.
And  Bond had to  stop 'em  from um  succeeding in his mission.
And  the man  that he was stalking, he-  he flew to another country,  and his forces were there  because,  and then uh  Bond,  I don't know, somehow he  just  made him blow the whole thing.
He-  I don't know,  he-  I think he uh  contacted his-  well whoever he was working for, and he- he gave them the location of where they were.
And then I think planes came in and  dropped bombs on 'em or something, you know.
But, that took about three hours of the plot, but I don't know exactly what happened.
Yes.
No.
Not h- Well when I was about six, we had a  small puppy for a couple of weeks, and then  later on we had a small puppy  called Snowball.
And we had that for  I don't know, about six months, and  other than that all we've had is goldfish.
Well um  the first one  I mean I was so little, and I don't even remember what happened to it.
We kept them  for awhile, and either he got lost or something or  maybe m- I don't know, maybe my father  did some-  gave him away or something.
I don't know.
Because we were  real small then, and we really, you know, we couldn't take care of a dog or anything.
We just played with him.
The other one though,  well we kept him,  kept her for quite awhile.
And then, I- my mother say we have to get rid of her,  and we did.
Mm, no I don't think so.
I don't know.
Maybe she just didn't like dogs too much.
Well, not funny.
But I remember something that  happened one day, but-  well  I don't know.
I had my fishing rod on the  back porch and,  she was out there playing around, and  she got hooked her.
And you know the hook was still on the rod and,  she was um-  the dog just kept yelling and yelling, and my mother had to go snatch the hook out of her, and that wasn't too pleasant I guess.
Mm  English,  Algebra Two,  Chemistry,  and French Two,  and then a few minor subjects,  Mechanical Drawing and Journalism.
It used to be Math and Science, but  seeing it's getting harder and harder, uh seems like I do better in- in the subjects I care least for.
Um j-  things like  Spelling, Reading,  Mathematics, and  English History, and  things like that.
Well,  I was a Patrol Boy, so  I would  get out about  three fifteen, three twenty I guess, and  I'd go home, and  then I had a small part time job  where I just go in the grocery store and help  man out for a little while.
So I do that, and then  I don't know.
I'd  go play.
We'd play football or baseball or something for,  til it got dark,  and then we had to go in.
Well, when I was in the fourth grade  uh, they just  one- I guess one of the sixth graders came around.
Probably the  uh, captain of the Patrol Force at the time.
And they asked uh  who wanted to be a Patrol Boy, and  you just sign up on a sheet.
And then they  let you-  the teachers I guess have to recommend you  before you could do it though.
Just to uh  keep the children from getting hit by cars mostly.
Well, yes, I had- I was um  on the m-  corner, right in front of the school,  and we had a crossing guard there, so  it really wasn't-  oh- we just would uh-  the crossing guard would  give us signals when to let the children across and-  Then we'd wave 'em across and  hold 'em back when we were told to.
No, we weren't-  we weren't supposed to.
But, you kn- once and awhile the uh  crossing guard wouldn't show up, and  one patrol boy would  get brave enough to walk out in the street and try to stop the cars or something.
And a couple of days later you wouldn't see him on Patrol Force anymore though.
Yeah, because I don't know- we weren't supposed to stop traffic or anything.
Yes.
Yes I think so.
Mm, going into the  theater and  staying around the house a lot.
Mm,  probably going out on dates and things.
And..
Mm, no I don't think so.
Most of my teachers haven't been too bad.
Some of them were a little hard on you, but  you know, they never really hollered at you or anything.
Homework.
They give you a, say, 'here's a half hour's worth of homework' or something and  take you about three hours to do it and if you didn't show up with it next day in class, you either got a zero or else you'd have to  come in and  make it up or something.
Well, I don't really know.
Best teacher.
Well, I guess, each one was best in his own way.
I mean,  I don't know  which one I learned the most from, I really couldn't say either.
I don't know, I- I'll say my Chem Study teacher this year.
He seemed like-  it was a  hard course to begin with but  he  we c- uh, at the end of the year we did learn something.
At least what the formula for salt was or something.
But  I don't know.
I think  I've always liked science mostly anyway but  I l- I think I learned quite a bit there, and he was-  he was always prepared and everything,  put a lot of work into the course.
Uh  preparation?
Well, I don't- well there's  this particular teacher, he had um,  the way I understand it  he had started teaching there three years ago,  and the uh  course doesn't really change from year to year.
So the  uh, one of the teachers told me  for the- f- his first year,  he would  spend about  three hours in the evening just preparing for the course the next day, But uh  then you know, the next year, he wouldn't have to- he would just save his notes  from the  prev- from the year before and then  use those  because  um, each day in class he would have his notes that he had from  the year before and once in a while he would mention that last year we were a chapter  ahead of this or something.
Know.
Besides preparation, I think he has to  understand the students and,  well  he has to  be willing to help them  when they need help and  cooperate with them, you know, .
No, I- I don't know.
I always seem to get  along pretty well with  most of the teachers, but then I don't know, sometimes at-  a lot of the students wouldn't do your homework, and they just couldn't stand the teacher but  usually I just do what he said, and not bother with it  because I remember like my Biology teacher in ninth grade, a lot of, you know, either  most of the students d-  just  hated him.
And then, ei- there were those that hated him, and then those that  liked him, and would do what he say and then there were- there were those that  just wouldn't do anything, you know.
They didn't care, but  then  this year when I went to Sidwell  you know, it's complete-  completely different type of school and everything so  I know all the students,  different environment and everything.
Students are different and  all the teachers  seem to be more concerned with the students and.
Well um,  I don't know.
I think  he had been teaching high school before,  and  the change, I don't-  in- when you-  in high school,  a lot of times the teachers just lecture.
But  uh,  I don't know.
In- in junior high school I think they kind of  spoon feed you or something,  and  when he came in that was his first year there,  and  he didn't- he would just come in and lecture and things, and he wouldn't  really go over the material sometimes.
And students wouldn't understand what he was saying, and  they just got fed up with it I guess, and  didn't  they just didn't want to do anything else, and  then, I know once in awhile, he'd  give tests and-  like the very first test he gave us was a essay test and  most students don't like to do those  type tests because  it's about five pages of  writing without using books or anything you know.
And,  I don-  I don't know, I usually do better on essay tests though, so I didn't mind that and then, I don't- once in awhile he'd give us test  and  half of the  questions on there would be things th- he had never taught us.
But  because I remember sometimes he'd  just put a lot of questions on there, and  things that  no one ever heard- heard of or anything just about.
Like  I remember one example was he gave us a test  and it had the parts of the heart on it.
And we hadn't studied the heart or anything,  and about the blood cells and  I think that was a couple of chapters ahead of us.
But  I don't- usually he'd either throw the test away or  he would  put 'em on a curve or something because  I don't know, not too many students failed,  except the ones that didn't do anything.
Well,  well  last, this past summer at summer school in New Hampshire, um  well I don- I don't know.
It wasn't really a trick.
They just took the teacher's car and  put it-  there was a big-  all of the uh buildings led to one  circle, like  where- and each path from each building would just  end up in one circle which was  the center of everything around there.
And they just moved his car from the uh, parking lot,  down to the center of the  whatever it was and  left it there, and it j- it just looked kind of funny sitting out in the middle of nowhere  kind of like.
And then  this year,  just  the week we got out of school just-  j- just about a w-, two weeks ago I guess.
they uh  took  the-  one of the counselors, they took his  Falcon  and they put it on the uh  track  over by the football field.
And they took adhesive tape  and  made a seven  and  taped that on the car, and put racing stripes out of adhesive tape on there,  which really wasn't too hard to get off but,  and they set it on the track like a racing car or something, and then they pu- I think they put a smoke bomb in it or something, you know, which would make a lot of smoke when you start it up to move it.
But, he got- I-  I don't know, he found out about that some way, and he took the smoke bomb out before he  moved his car.
That was about the funniest thing.
Usually they just laugh.
You know, they wouldn't- I don't know- they wouldn't get mad or anything because-  but they just usually played practical jokes and things but  I don't know I think one time though the whole faculty got mad with something the seniors did just before the close of school.
They had a uh  a Wit Committee,  which would  play jokes on everybody, the whole school, not just the teachers.
And  for one thing, they uh  in f- in front of the school one day, they put-  put up a sign with, furnished apartments for rent.
I don't know if anybody came in to rent an apartment or anything but-  and then-  but  I th- the thing that the  faculty got mad about was  one day they took all of the bells loose.
So the uh  that day everyone was late for classes and everything.
And they had to announce every time my period was over.
And, they said it cost about three hundred dollars to fix those bells, so I don't think they liked that.
Yes.
Yes, usually.
I don't know.
Just uh,  most of the kids around the block  we just  I don't know, sometimes we'd-  you know, it wasn't, no- there weren't- I don't think there were any real gangs or anything, but  you'd always play with the same guys, and  like play baseball or something, and  you, like  I lived on  like  Tennessee Avenue, would play  Fifteen Street or something, you know.
Just a small game of baseball over at the elementary school.
Yes, usually,  but  a lot of times they are-  see I don't- I don't have any brothers, but  they would have older brothers that would come along and  elbow into the game, and   you know, because they were bigger and everything.
So  I don't know, they just choose up sides, and  usually there would be some bigger ones there.
N- no, I don't think so.
Well, I don't- the  group that  around my- where I live at, that I used to  I guess you say play with, I don't- I don't know.
I stopped.
And they were getting a little too bad for me so  I don- I don't  bother with them much too more, but  at school, I have  friends that I'm usually with,  who you can usually find me with.
But  I don't- everybody at school is pretty friendly, so  you just about find me anywhere.
Um  where I lived at, or at-  Well, no white children lived around there at all, I don't think.
But,  I really didn't see too many of 'em.
Um, well the school I go to now, I think  in my cl-  in my class, the tenth grade class, I think there are about four Negroes, and  about  eighty white children and  maybe um, one or two Chinese but  I don't kow.
Yes, uh and  uh, in junior high school,  walked elementary school, it was  right in my neighborhood so  there were all Negroes there, and then  in junior high there were,  each class I had about  there were mostly Negroes, but there would be about  two or three white  children and then  the rest Negroes out of about thirty children.
Mm, well  I could pick an example in junior high possibly.
Um,  not in elementary though.
Well, there was I don't know, a boy name- by the name of RD-NAME-4, and he was about  best athlete in the school in the seventh grade and,  he was better than most of the ninth graders too, you know.
Like Super Boy or something, and I don't know, he as  pretty good athlete, and  he was a nice guy, too, you know.
He wasn't  like a bully or anything, even though he was about the  strongest guy you know.
He wasn't a bully.
He'd often- I remember there was one little guy, smallest guy in the school,  in the seventh grade, and  you know everybody would just joke around with him and pick on him and everything and  I don't know, RD-NAME-2 would-  he would kind of help everybody out.
And if anybody  you know would ever bother you or anything, he would  tell him to leave you alone and things, but you know, he wasn't a bully or anything, so I guess that's why everybody liked him.
And  he made basketball team and things like that in the seventh grade,  and he was about  n-  think in the upper ninety-five percentile in  in the uh  national  athletics.
Yes, pr-  outstanding athlete.
I don't think they went-  most of the people at school, they wouldn't-  they didn't care much about the  varying  s- scholarly students, see more for the athletes at the time.
Yeah, but, I don't know in high school now though,  it's kind of both ways.
They look up to the athletes and the scholars.
And some other- some-  some students there are both athletes and good scholars, so.
Yes, I think so.
Should have been pretty easy because  I- I noticed recently  every- I only  walk around the block about once a month or something, you know, where  and see 'em, see the  people I used to play with, but  I don't know, usually every time I go around there, there's  one new guy in the  neighborhood or something, and  I meet him, and then  I don't know.
But  usually, I don't- I think  in- just about anybody could start-  anybody in that neighborhood.
Mm, no.
Just  hang around with everybody else I guess.
Be like everybody else, you know.
Do the same things, play  and everything.
No idea at all.
I don't know, I've-  I had to do a research paper last year, and  about twenty pages of what I wanted to do, and I didn't really know, so  I waited til the last minute, and then I just  picked any occupation and started writing on that, and  I just happened to pick dentistry, but I don't think I'd really like to be a dentist.
Too much  college for that.
I think about eight years or something.
Yes, I do.
Hope so.
Well, I don't- well, after he gets through high school, I guess he has to go to a  good college that  you know, that's known for its dentistry.
And he-  I don't know, probably at first,  it probably takes about as long as a doctor I believe,  but  first  two years or so, probably, is just book work and  learning about  the uh  I guess the instruments and  about the teeth and  things and,  maybe,  I don't know, they probably require to take courses on  how to get along with other people, too, and things, and how to treat children, and  because,  that brings up another point about my Biology teacher I think.
He wanted to be a teacher doing something else, and  he said the only reason he didn't take it was because uh  he had to go  take classes on,  well he said  to quote, uh  take classes on what to do when Johnny wet his pants and things like that.
And he didn't want to be bothered with that, so he didn't take that but  I guess in dentistry school  they uh  even have courses like that, and  of course, the things about-  learning about teeth and  instruments, and  then, I guess they have about two years of  like a lab assistant or something, and  just working around other dentsits, and then  they probably get about  two years of experience or something, you know.
Working  and  well like,  probably like a free clinic or something, you know,  where they don't charge you, but  you know, they are there for the experience.
And then I guess after that, they go out into the world on their own.
Well, ,  uh, I don't know.
I'd just  buy a boat,  big cruiser and  big fishing pole and  go out somewhere and  go fishing or something.
I don't know.
Maybe  go on a,  I don't know, I've always seen on television all these  big hunting and fishing trips, and  I think I like to try one of those.
Well,  last summer,  this past summer, I used to fish just about  at least once or twice a week and-  because- I don't- my cousin-  he'd be about the only one that ever take me so  whenever I could  get him to take me, we'd  go fishing on Chesapeake Bay or somewhere.
He had a s- he bought  a small fishing boat and,  he- we'd go out on the bay and,  just  open it up, and go all across the bay or something.
A little sixteen foot  open  fishing boat, and.
I don't know, and then we'd just stop somewhere, and  I don't know I- he claims to know pretty-  quite a bit about fishing, but I don't think either one of us know too much about it, but you know, we just  for the fun of it, go out.
And  sometimes we catch fish, and we don't know what kind they are, and- yeah- I don't- I remember one time we caught-  w- well, I don't know what the scientific name for 'em are, but everybody on the  bay called 'em blow fish or something, and I guess they call 'em that because  right below the mouth there would be a big pouch, and they would just  blow up and  I guess just fill it with air.
Like a big round bubble, and then they had  two big sharp teeth in the very front of their mouth, and they would  rub 'em together and make some funny noises and everything, and  first time we caught one of those, we-  we were afraid to take him off the line.
But  I don't know.
Fishing.
And then- Yeah.
Well, I've only been fishing once this-  this summer so far, but  we didn't have any luck, to tell the truth.
But  Someone down there- I think there were a couple of  soldiers down there, from one of the  forts around here, and they couldn't take the fish back, so they gave us about  thirty Blue Gills, and we took those home.
And of course my cousin said we caught 'em, but w-  actually we didn't so .
We didn't catch anything that day, but  I rememb- I think our best catch was  one day we went out on Wicomico River.
And we caught  eighty eight Perch I think that day, which  just small fish, you know, about  so big.
But  yeah.
I think- we stayed out all day.
But, I- they were really biting that day, and  I was using two hooks, I started counting, and I think about six or seven times in a row, I just throw out  and set the line down and hold it between my knees, and then, I'd put the other two fish on the line.
And then by then, I'd just wind it up again, and I have two more fish to take off and put down and I don't know, they were really biting good that day.
And then one time we were on the Chesapeake Bay, I guess we're about-  we weren't too far out because  I guess about three or four hundred yards from the shore.
And my cousin's, is just a small boat, and he's six foot four, and he weighs about two hundred and sixty pounds or something.
And  at the time, he only had one broken up rod that he was using,  and  we were catching Spot at the time off of blood worms, and  they were really biting good that day too.
We were catching two at a time and,  we were only out,  out there about  five minutes or something, and between the two of us, we caught  about ten good size Spot.
But  I don't know.
I think he was  little- got a little lazy or something, and  let his rod go, and two fish hit it at the same- they hit it at the same time, and it went into the water.
And he wasn't about ready to give the rod up so  then he- he just  dives in the water, and  he weighs these  like I said, six four, two hundred and sixty pounds, and  he goes under water, and then  I guess about ten seconds, he comes back up.
And  he has his pole in his hand, and he said he- I asked him how found it.
He said he just dived in and start going down, and he  hit it as he was swimming underwater.
And as he was climbing back into the boat,  you know, he  it's just a small boat, and when he put his hands up on the side to get in  water starts rushing into the boat, and I started getting scared.
I don't know what to do, and I don't know.
He just-  he made it back in the boat, and then  after he got back in the boat-  this was only about five minutes after we had been out there- he,  while he was in the water, he had got stung by about fifty jelly fish I guess.
Uh So, he did- he didn't know what it was or anything.
I think he thought it was a rash or something, and  so he didn't want to fish anymore, so we went home.
That was that short fishing trip.
Yeah.
No, he just went home and bought,  bought some kind of ointment or something and applied it on his skin, and then he- I don't know.
Next day, he was okay.
Except I was just a little mad at him for because yeah, uh- those fish were really biting that day too.
Yeah.
Well, not in the boat but  one time,  I think that was  before he was sixteen, and I was about  I guess nine or ten then.
We went fishing  um  in Virginia, Charlottesville, or somewhere near there,  where he lived at the time.
And  he couldn't drive then, and he didn't have a car anyway,  so his father took us  somewhere  where we were fishing, and he was gonna come back and pick us up  I think around nine o'clock or something, after it got dark.
Dark.
And  um  we fished for awhile, and  then a storm did come up, and we didn't have any transportation, uh we were just out in the open, you know, and we got soaked.
And then when we got in the car  it was dark, so his father told us we had to  go home in our underwear that night and- so we went-  we got to his house, and we jumped out of the car and ran into the house in soaking underwear.
But I do- that was about nine at the time.
He was about sixteen I guess.
Yes.
Usu- well,  a Christmas tree,  presents, and  surprises mostly.
And then  usually my mother, she makes candy or something and  buy a lot of a presents and surprises for each other and  usually we go out somewhere and  visit our, you know, cousins and relatives and things.
And  they come to our house, and we go to their house and  take presents back and forth, and  I don't know, I think the main thing though is  wait-  everyone gets up  Christmas, I don't even think anyone goes to bed.
They just wait to about three or four o'clock, and  especially when we were little.
I remember- you know, we'd be- we'd get toys and things and  you know, we'd tell Santa Claus what we wanted, and  of course my mother and father'd buy it.
And  we want to see what they'd gotten.
We'd run downstairs about- right after- we'd wait for them.
We'd  listen to 'em go out to the car and get it, and  we'd wait til they put it under the tree and go back upstairs.
And then we'd run downstairs and get .
about five minutes after they put it there.
No.
Hm.
Well,  let's see.
For Christmas?
No.
Well, I don't know for Christmas, just about, well for my birthday, I remember I got a bicycle once.
Uh.
a English Racer.
I never had a bicycle before and  so my m- my mother, she bought an English Racer for me.
And I broke that up in a couple of weeks, but I don't it all started when  one little screw fell off.
And it was, I don't know, a JC Higgins and  some, uh  one of my neighbors had had one  before I had.
And he told me right after I bought it, that I shouldn't never gotten a JC Higgins because  the parts  are hard to replace and everything.
So, one screw fell off, and then the next thing I knew, the fender was off, and- next thing I knew the tire was all  broken up and everything.
The next thing and the seat was gone and pretty soon it was no more bike left.
And then I remember I got a bicycle- I mean a uh  watch for Christmas  when I was about twelve, and  that was an,  I don't know, I kind of liked that too, so.
Mm,  no I don't really think so, um.
Once I was in a car accident, which wasn't really  very much of a car accident.
No one was hurt or anything.
That's about-  I don't know, I guess that's about the closest I've ever gotten to it.
But, oh!
Once, well I don't know.
We were coming back from the beach or something and,  I was sleep anyway.
The next thing I knew  just had a accident or something.
But  I don't know.
But  that w- it really wasn't anything serious.
I don- I don't even know if it was  I don't even think we hit another car or anything.
It probably just had a flat tire or something and went off the road and  maybe bumped into a tree or something.
And then, oh, and one other time  I thought I was d- I.
Well it wasn't, of course I  knew it wasn't anything serious gonna really happen, but  at the time it was happening, I was pretty afraid.
I-  I remember when I was about  I guess about eight years old, and I was taking swimming lessons at the neighborhood swimming pool.
And  the life guard told me to jump in the six feet, and I was about three feet tall.
And this was at the end of the course though, so  he said,  jump in,  and go to the bottom.
And he had shown us how to  push off from the bottom and come back up to the top.
And I was about three feet tall, so  I jumped in, but I never reached the bottom.
I was just kind of  hung there in the middle of the pool  drinking about  ten gallons of water I guess and I don't know I finally  got out, and  I didn't come back to swimming lessons anymore.
Yeah.
Well, no not really.
I don't know.
Well  about this particular- I did learn to swim later on, I mean, but  I think, just about anything can be avoided.
I mean, if  you take the necessary  uh steps to avoid it.