Ball,  kickball,  four corners,  baseball.
With a ball.
You take it  and we draw  four corners on the sidewalk or someplace with chalk,  and you hit the ball with  two hands to your opponent  and then go all around.
It has four, it has a king,  one, two, and three.
You just hit- If you hit it outside, you're out.
Outside the lines that you draw.
Mm-hm.
Four corners is when you draw the  four-  draw the four corners  and play in the four corners.
In kick ball  you  choose a team  and one team out on the field,  one's back  kicking,  run to the first, second  third base and home.
Dancing.
We dance.
After a while we-  After school-  Oh I go to Catholic school  and we just dance.
We just have a ball.
Tighten Up  uh,  Alligator which I don't know how to do, I saw somebody do it.
And the rest of the dance we just make up ourselves don't have a name.
When you get down on the floor, I don't know how to do it I still-  RD-NAME-1 do it the little boy across the street.
Then I go home.
Do my homework, come outside, talk  to the girls,  boys,  everybody else.
Don't remember  hide and go- bread and butter.
Oh hot bread and butter you take  stick or something  and you go hide it,  and  then you holler hot bread and butter after you hide it,  then they gotta come find it  and whoever find it, if they tag you with it  you out of the game.
Oh everybody hide,  person that count  say,  twenty-one or something like that,  then  you hide  and person  that's it  gotta come and find you and the first one they catch  or whatever they say, first, second, third, anything like that, when they catch you  well you it.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
You say one, two,  we played double dutch single,  and you sway the rope  did that,  jump up and down.
Double dutch when you play  turn twice with your hands,  turn one over this way and one that way,  and single you just turn this way.
Mm-hm.
Mother may I?
Uh-huh.
That was when one person would be it  you say,  take  one step  and then say, mother may I, and you say yes you may take one large step forward.
We played red light.
That be when the person counted to ten real fast, say one two three four red light and turn around,  and you gotta stop at the red light,  and while he's turned around you can run all the way up, the first one to reach it-  reach up to the red light,  is the new red light.
In double dutch?
Oh we would take turns.
We would count by twos,  but counting by twos is not the regular counting by twos.
You say two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, fourteen, sixteen, eighteen, twenty-two, thirty-two, forty-two,  up like that.
Mm-hm.
I been told when a boy kiss a girl they take a ship around the world, hey hey shop doo-wop  go all the way up to ten, then we get to ten, you re-  start that and we counted by one, see who it beat and the lowest two will get the end.
Let me see.
Blueberry that's when you play single.
Blueberry cockle sherry eevy ivy over,  I like coffee I like tea I like the boys and the boys like me They go- That's a long one.
Play ball?
We have a first chooser and a second chooser.
First chooser choose somebody then they choose,  then the other one will,  then you go back and forth til all the   are gone and on teams.
Oh we- we call.
Or we put our feet in  and the first two out.
Put- everybody put their feet in and you go around  then say a little poem or something,  first one out  is first chooser, second one out, second chooser.
They say, let me see .
I'm Popeye the sailor man, I live in a garbage can,  and all that  and when you get to can,  well that's first chooser out just like that.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Dark Shadows,  Peyton Place, Another World  We watch those every day.
Dark Shadows.
That's one.
It's spooky.
Let me see it's this girl named Victoria Winters,  she was a governess for this little boy,  that was at the beginning.
She came there  everything, all sorts of things happening.
She went back in time, seventeen eighty-five.
Barnabas,  ooh he's a vampire,  Angelique was a witch,  so was her brother.
So,  She told- she put a curse on Barnabas  said he'll never die, be eternal life.
But he sleeps in-  he sleeps in the daytime.
But Doctor cured him of that now,  nineteen sixty-eight,  and they created this man named Adam,  other people's arms, legs, he got sewed all up on his face.
We watch it every day.
Three-thirty.
It's gonna start coming on at ten in the morning and  then at four in the afternoon.
Mm-hm.
Which one?
Another World?
I very seldom look at that but I like it.
That come on three o'clock.
Mm Big Valley and Peyton Place.
Then I come back outside again.
I didn't see it yesterday.
It was good, I didn't see it yesterday.
Miss Betty and Rodney got married.
Again.
See uh,  let me see,  Steven  Steven and this uh,  this other girl,  the reverend's mother, just got a new reverend in town,  and she's sweet on Steven,  trying to make her husband jealous  and everything.
And this-  this teenage girl,  what's her name?
Uh,  I forgot her name, she had this little baby named-  Oh her name is Jill,  she got this little baby  by  Dr.
Rossi's brother,  and he don't-  She don't wanna accept any money from him.
Well,  that's it.
That's all  I saw of it.
But I didn't see it last night I saw it Monday.
Sunday.
Dark of the Sun.
That was good.
Jim Brown was in it  and they were on a train  tryna get these diamonds,  save these people cause there was war going on.
So,  let me see,  what else?
And at the- remember at the end of it,  Jim Brown was talking on the radio  and this other man who wanted to go home,  he stabbed him,  and it went through his back and came all the way out the front and we saw it.
It looked nasty.
Then when the white man came back,  when they k- they saw him,  and the white man  he went on- I don't know his name,  he went on a rampage asking a man to kill Jim Brown,  ooh and he stabbed him, he did everything else and water was gushing all down the stream,  and everything.
We had a dog, gave him away.
It was mixed.
Pekingese, something,  German Shepherd, all that was mixed.
Just a mixed dog.
We called him Rex.
We gave him away before we moved up here.
Everything.
Oh when he wasn't housebroken.
He wasn't housebroken my mother just got a new rug,  Ach.
Right on the rug.
She k- half killed him    You know right on the rug.
She was mad.
Mm-hm.
Brought her her shoes,  he wouldn't let nobody in the apartment building.
He would sit out in the hall, wouldn't let nobody in the apartment,  nobody that he knew.
See we lived in a three story apartment before we moved up here.
And he knew everybody.
He wouldn't let nobody in,  no strangers.
He stood out there and barked at 'em.
We gave him away to my cousin.
He wanted a dog, he didn't know where to get one at so  my mother gave it to him.
Mm-mm.
RD-SCHOOL-7.
I'm just starting this year, I haven't been there yet.
RD-SCHOOL-8.
On Morris Road.
We took all the subjects, spelling, math,  history, geography,  science, religion,  everything else,  reading.
Math.
I just like it.
It's the hardest,  but I like it.
It's- It was easy to me, but to everybody else in the class it's kind of hard.
Mm-hm.
Let's see.
Science.
Ooh I just hated science.
They talk about the body and I get all the parts of the body mixed up.
Mm.
I get those muscles mixed up.
Mm-hm.
Everything.
RD-NAME-5, she was the principal.
She done holler at me all the time.
She just fuss cause one girl named RD-NAME-3,  she was no manners  she fuss back at her, Sister have to slap her.
Ever.
She  fuss back at her mother, her mother told Sister to hit her.
Mm-mm.
I don't know.
She was just so bad she needed it though.
She did everything in the book.
Wrong.
Everything.
Sh-  she would write on the lavatory doors and everything.
Her- write her name all on anything.
And I'd go around  RD-NAME-3 was here,  now she's gone, she left her name and carried on.
And everything  Like they do in the movies.
I was good I was the president President of school.
I was good and we sponsored a talent show  we made three hundred fifty-two dollars.
That's what I- that's what we left to the school No,  I wasn't no pet.
I didn't like being the pet.
Mm-mm.
I ain't never hardly do nothing but  I had to  sit in the office sometime and they come down,  whenever they have to ask about,  something they didn't want the teachers to know,  they came down, told me.
Keeping the children all the little first, second graders in line,  and when they  hitted  they take-  Follow the example of those older children , and they're so bad I told 'em not to follow the example, cause they bad.
Start your own life, don't follow nobody else.
You be a leader not a follower.
Thank you.
I didn't have her, she-  she was just- I liked her at school, Sister RD-NAME-4.
I never had her, she was new.
But I like her.
I just like her, she teaches second grade.
I never had her she j- had just been there for two years.
She's my friend, I like her.
Sister RD-NAME-4 she's gone now.
She was strict.
She was  mean, she didn't want you to-  See,  some of 'em say she was  mean, real mean, but sh- sh- Only time she got mean was when we did something wrong.
I remember when I was in the first grade she hit me over the head with a book.
Who me?
I didn't like it but I laughed.
I was laughing, hollering, doing everything else in the first grade.
She had to call my mother, tell my mother come get me cause I was so bad.
She hit me over the head with a book.
Sister RD-NAME-2 Ugh.
She fussed so much.
We'd go out the building,  she gotta fuss, saying come right back in the building, it was our recess now,  she make us come back in the building.
And after school  Sister let us come back in,  when we waiting for our ride to come pick us up, she'd tell us to stay out.
She's so mean  she scare me off,  holler at the little children all the time.
I know they get tired of her, hearing her mouth go bleh bleh bleh bleh bleh.
Mm-hm.
We put a frog-  frog in her chair.
That was Halloween.
She was mad.
Boy brought it to school.
In sixth grade we had  lizards and everything else, that was for a science project.
I didn't like it.
We had to take 'em out, cut 'em open.
They were already dead.
Ew.
I- that's why I never liked science.
Sit back and watch everybody else.
Mm-mm.
with nobody's animal.
Dead or alive.
Mm-mm.
ugh that looks so nasty when they cut 'em open.
Yuck.
Made my stomach hurt.
These right here, we all a club.
We just started it Wednesday.
Oh on Wednesday, Thursday.
Yeah it's twenty five cents a week.
It's just  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-1, RD-NAME-3, RD-NAME-3 and myself.
We don't have a name yet,  we just started Wednesday.
We have another meeting today.
Some time today.
We just talk a lot, we have fun.
Let me see.
Just having a ball.
Everything.
We be running around.
See RD-NAME-3 has a boyfriend named RD-NAME-1, I got one named RD-NAME-2, he works for RD-WORK-2 right down there.
He's out there  waiting for me to come back out,  so we can go to my house and talk  like we did yesterday.
He talked about RD-NAME-2 and them yesterday it just made me laugh.
Friday.
Go to parties on Friday night.
Dances up at St.
Johns.
Mm-hm.
They have their dances.
When we come home we go to a block party, block party tonight down on  Twenty-first Street.
Mm-hm.
Outside.
Me.
I'm the president.
We have president,  treasurer, and a secretary.
RD-NAME-2's the treasurer,  I'm president,  RD-NAME-2's the secretary.
We only have two members left.
I don't know they just elected me.
We just  wrote on a piece of paper,  who we wanted for  treasurer first,  and we picked RD-NAME-2.
Then,  picked a secretary,  and it was RD-NAME-3, the girl that was just here in the brown,  and  then they picked me.
Cause I'm heavy.
I mean what I say.
I don't know.
I don't know.
See they whisper to me all this stuff.
They tell me,  tell me not to tell nobody and I don't, I keep my word.
See sometime we get to talking about each other like this morning.
Let me see,  Lynn thought we were talking about her but we wasn't, cause we didn't tell her what we were talking about, so she got mad.
Yesterday we talking about somebody else,  RD-NAME-3 got mad cause she thought we was talking about her.
That's all.
I ain't never hear 'em talk about me.
For the past week.
Yeah, it's two girls across the street, they were supposed to come over here today.
But I don't- I don't know their names, we gave 'em  in the paper.
I don't know.
We gotta get to know 'em first  before we let 'em in.
I asked  the group yesterday, do we want 'em to come in,  so we can get to know 'em, meet 'em, take 'em around town,  and do everything else.
Personality, the way they look,  act.
Let me see.
The way they are, you know.
Like mature, something like that,  no childish ways.
We have fun, like what I like,  do everything else.
A nurse.
I like to operate, I wanna be a pediatrician,  or  one of those deliver the little babies.
Help- Both of 'em, either one I can make it up to.
Got my heart set on doctor  but if I can't make a doctor I'll be a nurse.
I don't know- I wanna study real hard to be a doctor.
I wanna work in a hospital, I wanna have my own office.
Let me see.
I like to help people.
So I wanna be a doctor.
Huh?
Yeah.
I know but  I hope I grow out of this weak stomach  cause every time I see those look nasty my stomach it start hurting.
I got a cold.
Six years, seven.
Eight.
Mm-hm.
Go to college.
Really don't know.
I gotta try it first.
Really don't know.
Let me see.
My  uh-  With the medicine he give me,  it helps.
I like to-  They help people.
I like to help people too.
Excuse me.
Fourth of July.
We go to  Longview Beach.
Um,  somewhere in Maryland.
Somewhere by La Plata, Maryland.
We got a summer place.
Our family, we go out there,  RD-NAME-3 and all the rest of us.
It's her house but we go out there.
Dance, barbecue,  fool around,  do everything, run,  ride  bicycles,  everything.
In the- on the beach?
Mm-hm.
In the water.
I don't know, let me see.
Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't.
I say I don't believe this gonna happen  to me  nobody else.
Like  the world's gonna come to an end.
I believe it is cause I know I'm'a come to an end sometime.
And everybody else is too I hope.
Let me see.
Let me see.
Oh.
When my boyfriend saw me,  I was talking to my ex-boyfriend named RD-NAME-2,  Oh I- Oh my gracious.
god,  this is it.
Thought he was gonna kill me.
He'll jump down my throat.
I saw him coming I was like, oh he look like he gonna   Oh look like he gonna hit me.
He didn't though.
That was yesterday.
Phew.
Sure did.
Let me see.
Oh  when I was in school I got a D on my report card.
First time in my life I ever got one D.
That was in science.
Thought my father was gonna kill me.
Oh my gracious.
I got the rest A's and B's and one D in science.
Let me see.
I'm going to see one  Sunday I hope.
With the crew going to see it.
Yeah with Bob Hope's in it.
The Private Navy of-  I don't know his name what he playing in the picture.
Yeah and the Murderer's Row.
Mm-hm.
I wanna see that one, that one's Dean Martin and all these girls killing people.
Oh last night Beach Party.
It was good, it was good.
With Tony Curtis and Annette.
Oh,  this man- this professor  he grew this beard  so he could study the teenagers  on the picture, mm-hm they were at the beach.
And there was this man they-  this group that ride on the motorcycle named Erik Van Zipper,  he go,  do all that stuff,  and uh,  they got h- he got in a fight with the professor  professor took his finger, did like this, and made him just stop like that.
He made him paralyzed for a minute.
Then he had to take him out, throw him in the water to wake him up.
It was good.
And let me see what else happened.
Oh then we went back outside then we came back in we watched it again.
Watched the end of it.
After he saved- shaved off his beard,  Erik Van Zipper came back again,  and the finger got him.
That's what they called it,  that's the finger.
The man, he was the leader of this group on the motorcycle who wear these black jackets.
Girls and boys.
He would zip down his jacket and start scratching his stomach.
I want a rambler,  no steps in it  cause I hate steps.
Make my leg hurt,  so,  want one of those, just all on one floor,  and the basement.
But I don't mind going down, coming back up  a little bit of steps, some steps kill me.
Let's see,  I want a    beautiful living room with  two pole lamps hanging down off the ceiling,  color TV,  hi-fi or that made in one combination, I saw one over Easter over at the shopping center,  it had a  uh, china closet, color TV, a hi-fi, all that.
Made in one.
Cost around one thousand dollars, something like that.
Phew.
Lot of money.
See,  what would I do with a million dollars?
Give my mother, father some of it, a little bit,  little bit,   keep the rest all for myself.
I might buy my brother and sister little bitty things, whatever they need.
I'd use it on what I would need.
I'd like to move.
I just moved up here in November.
I wanna move now.
Buy me a house full of furniture,  pay for it first so I wouldn't be- have to bother about paying a rent on it.
Let me see.
I don't know.
Let me see.
Never had a million dollars before.
Let me see,  give part of it to my friends if they needed it.
Gotta save a little bit, put it in the bank.
Tonight we're going to McDonald's we hope.
See last Friday we started a new thing,  my mother- We have  all the girls  this little crew right here as usual,  we asked my mother to take us to McDonald's,  we went out and gathered up a little bit of money,  go to McDonald's,  flirt,  holler all out the windows.
Did everything.
You know how girls are.
We just had a ball  See,  RD-NAME-3-  RD-NAME-3's  sitting on one end and I'm sitting the other,  It was in a station wagon,  my mother and my sister and little baby boy was up there,  up front,  and it was RD-NAME-3,  my other little sister.
I got a big family.
See her and RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-1 were in the back,  in the back of the station wagon, all the way in the back,  and it was RD-NAME-3 on this end,  on the right,  RD-NAME-3 in the middle and I was on the left.
RD-NAME-3 would wind her window down,  I wind mine down,  we see a cute boy out there, RD-NAME-3 say,  hello there.
I said, how you doing?
We stopped at the gasoline station,  this cute boy driving his car,  and we say, hello you wanna take us home?
and all this.
And he start laughing.
We asked what was his name,  his name was RD-NAME-1.
We just have a ball.
My mother would get us for hanging out the-  calling out the window.
Said it's not polite.
Everything.
Tonight we hope to go again.
Let me see.
Hm.
Nice.
I don't want no fancy ones.
They don't have to be cute or anything I just like 'em  cause of their self.
Beauty's only skin deep, that's what I say like the record does.
I like them.
They like what I like,  like to go bowling, Do anything.
Baseball.
Oh you know when those-  those dudes they get all sharped up and everything,  everybody think they cute,  and nothing on the inside just on the outside.
Fourteen.
Gonna be fifteen in November.
Let me see.
Doesn't make any difference, it's-  like all the same to me.
I don't think it's age I think it's just growing up.
I mean just- The minds just think different.
You know different things,  and  let me see.
My little sister she's ten,  I tell her everything, she ask questions I tell her.
She got herself a little boyfriend across the street.
I told her she gotta start when she young,  learn the facts.
Facts of life.
The birds and the bees.
Yeah.
Her breasts been getting fuller, I bought a bra for her birthday.
Think she was so happy.
Two brothers and two sisters.
And a little boy, my mother-  He live with us.
I'm right in the middle.
I'm odd.
I'm the oddest one in my family.
My sister-  All those look like my mother and I look like my father.
I was illegitimate,  and the rest of 'em nine month children.
I mean I wasn't illegitimate, I was premature.
I'm in the middle.
I'm odd.
Just  odd as I can be.
Everybody else stupid in school, I come home with the best report card all the time.
Except for that one time I got one D.
That was when my sister beat me.
Mm-hm.
I get all the money from my father.
Everything.
Nope.
My little sister is.
They don't like me, they talk about me.
My family and them.
They talk about me but I laugh at 'em.
I have a ball, she make me do the work, I do the work.
Do all that work.
Do everything.
Clean up the room,  RD-NAME-4 goes to school, that's the little girl,  It's not exactly school it's step up, she goes swimming, do things.
My older brother he go to RD-SCHOOL-2,  Summer school too.
RD-NAME-2 riding his bicycle, my older sister  gone to work.
And I'm home,  cleaning up.