Now she's  one of the judges that-  handed down one of the cisions- uh decisions in my favor when the-  when the- when the fire department and the U.S.
civil service lawyers where trying to help my case from out of court.
Now, she was from Mississippi,  and  she had me kind of shaking in my boots for awhile, but she- and what- I guess a judge is a judge when it comes down to a just decision, really,  you get what you're entitled to.
And this, and uh, this funny thing,  when the uh  the corporation council for the district, was- in the court arguing his-  trying to argue his point,  and telling the judge what she couldn't do-  in my case.
And uh  so she- told him that-  your motion is denied.
And when the s- U.S.
civil service lawyer-  asked the question-  and- he-he- he said to, uh, she- he said to her-  does that apply to U.S.
civil service commission too?
She said, yes.
That was end of that.
So then the-  soon after that it went to trial, and I had judge- judge RD-NAME-1.
Judge-  believe the , believe the  his name was.
Well, he's deceased now.
and he- he- he uh, he heard the case as a trial, and he- he hand down the decision in my favor.
So uh, then when my name came up for Battalion Chief,  then they s-  s-  start a few more tricks now.
Oh, they did everything.
I mean went to promotion board, and-  lied one to- I don't s- this fire chief we have right now,  um, he's  uh  he permitted one of the men to testify against me who was never my superior officer.
that's one thing I got against him here,  and another one-  uh, they had- we got- I had a white fellow in my command.
I was a captain of truck sixteen over here on Pennsylvania Avenue.
I was Captain there-  about uh-  two-two- about three years before I was promoted to a Battalion Chief,  and uh I had a white boy in my company, under my command, who wasn't studying his  probation.
He's supposed to study, you know.
That's the course that a fireman studies when he first comes in, and he wasn't doing so well.
So I went on vacation  uh  with my wife  in Africa.
She was teaching a summer in Africa.
And uh in nineteen sixty-three,  and  so when I came back-  this chief over here, who was my chief too,  uh  sent a report, a favorable report on him  for his three months.
See the examine each fireman every three months you see, a new man.
Well, I- when I was away, the three months came around, he examined himself, and he sent in a report on him that was favorable.
So, when I came back from my  uh, vacation  in Africa, and in- in London  uh-  he told me that uh, he said, Captain, I've uh  uh sent in uh  a form on RD-NAME-1- a f- a- a form on RD-NAME-1.
His name was RD-NAME-1,  and uh,  and I gave him good all the way through.
said, you- d- you'd do the same thing.
I said, sure.
I figure he's a chief, he should-  I wasn't there to- da- on his, uh, examination date, so he-  couldn't wait for me, so he examined him,  and he sent the report in.
So, I just agreed with him, send the report in.
Maybe I shoulda just chest- checked it myself, but I didn't do it.
Now, the fourth month comes up-  he didn't know anything hardly.
So I sent a report on- on- I sent in a report uh  running- er, grading him down you see.
He knew it.
Uh, and uh uh so, uh  we tried to bring- bring him up, but I couldn't bring him up, you see.
So the fifth month, he decided to res- to retire.
Well this Captain- this Chief went to the promotion board,  went up for Battalion Chief, and told  that I'm the one who sent that- sent it- sent the good report in on-on a man when he was failing- was failing,  you see.
And so uh,  I mean so- yes he did that.
Try to get me to stop being a Battalion Chief.
And so, but uh, I got the promo- finally got the promotion, but I had a lot of trouble getting it.
I had to go through the- uh I applied to the Human Relations Councils and every- and everything.
Then the- then the  Commissioner RD-NAME-3 had trouble then  uh,  even though the-  the uh-  examination  of the case by the  Council of Human Relations  showed  that there was  some ulterior motives behind  my- my getting the promotion,  you see.
Then the-  uh, RD-NAME-3 had trouble then with  Chief RD-NAME-3.
changing his stand, but uh  a case there, you know, where RD-NAME-3 told RD-NAME-3, well un-unless you make this better, there will be no more promotions.
And so I was made the- but then they got at- but where they got at- um-  back at me then was  when I got promoted to a Battalion Chief,  they removed me from the fire fighting division,  and put me behind a desk, see.
So uh  but I got the promotion.
I'm not worried about it.
I was- I was Acting Battalion Chief for-  for two years before I was promoted to a Battalion Chief.
I mean I had plenty of experience at it, so it was nothing- wasn't anything new to it- new to me in uh being promoted to a Battalion Chief.
Cause I had the-  I've had lot of experience out of it.
And so, as a matter of fact I think I got more experience out of being an Acting Battalion Chief then I  would have  being a Battalion Chief,  you see.
I think that the- well once the ice is broken, it's usually easier afterwards, you see.
And but of course, uh I wouldn't put it- I wouldn't,  uh  uh  I don't think those colored man should be too naive about  what's happening.
They should keep them s- keep the  uh  their  minds sharpened as far as the books are concerned, and uh don't  h- let them get any charges against them,  being late, or  uh, or-  not  taking their positions at fires, and things like that, you see.
Whites have been to fires, heck with white fireman-  You know when you go to a fire  their  companies the first-  the engine companies, first, second, and third,  in that order,  that they respond to a-  a house that's burning.
The first and third-  are suppose to respond to the front of the building.
The second, fourth, to the rear of a building, and their first truck  company, that's the long arrow trucks,  goes to the front, and the second one goes to the rear,  to ladder the-  the building and do rescue work.
Well,  heck I've seen plenty of white fellows go to a house  that was burning, never gonna take their positions like they should do it.
And never said anything-  nothing said about it.
And I've seen those colored fellas do something like that, and then they chew them out for it.
Oh yes, I mean-  prejudice is one of those things that- it-it's here to stay.
And it's a lot of it in  educational fields too  that uh  even s- a lot of us- being done  for the good  of the Negro,  back in a white man's head who's doing this,  there's something  that he doesn't- is hidden to him even,  that he doesn't even see.
Here's something like this.
You-  you get-  some of these kids used to white kids from colleges  that are coming in to help  underprivileged children, you see.
But  as long as they are helping underprivileged children,  the underprivileged child  is being discriminated against.
He needs something  that the p- child who is not underprivileged doesn't need.
You see what I mean?
So it's all- it's- it's- it's- it's a thing that I'm trying to help you out,  but I'm holding you down just so I can help you out.
You see what I mean?
I mean it's one of those fine things that-  that uh, even though you're trying to do some good,  you- you- it- it- it uh    it-  it uh-  uh-  it- it holds you-  now in my church,  they have a-  something's happening.
What is ??
church?
I mean, you- you- you- you're doing a good job.
You're c- conscience- conscience- conscientious about it,  but as long as you are to help a person in that situation,  there's-  you're holding-  holding them a line, you see.
You see what I mean?
I mean,  uh- but uh- but it- you- your intentions are very good.
Uh, but now uh- they use that in ex- they are less- they apply to- they speak of- of the white liberals.
Well heck if you didn't have white liberals, where would the Negro begin.
You got to have it.
You can't do without it.
A nickel can't do where white folks help.
Let them try.
You kn- is- up to Howard University the other day, and we were talking about ,  about uh  uh  you- you just can't get there.
You can't- you don't have the organization to get to places, you know.
Maybe I'm saying too much for this thing here, I don't know uh-    but the thing of it is- it- it- it uh-  it-  I don't know.
You just can't- don't have a-  we can try,  but we got to have-  you see,  we don't control  the econo- the uh  e- economics  of this country,  you see.
And we don't have a lot of c- we don't- how much- how much-  share- how many shares of stock do you suppose I own in  some of these corporations right now?
Little or none, none.
We own some, uh, my wife owns some in one of the corporations, but it- it's small.
I mean, you got to get economic and political power, you got- that's what you need.
Got to have it.
And so uh,  I don't know.
Christmas?
Well the- our- our celebration of Christmas is quite conventional.
Uh, we  uh  have a Christmas tree, and we- of course we  look forward to having a turkey at Christmas time, exchanging gifts,  the regular  American way of ex- of uh  celebrating Christmas.
We attend church on Christmas day.
We haven't been going to the Midnight Mass  lately,  but uh,  that's about the size of it.
Exchange gifts,  tree.
No.
I don't think so.
I've had- I've been in a lot of dangerous situations.
Not-not to die,  but to get injured seriously, or to get trapped- I've been trapped in a building,  uh, but it didn't last very long.
Uh-  I always took the precautions  in uh, going to a fire.
For instance like uh-    when a man goes into a fire, he should not  leave-  uh, get away from his hose line, you see.
I was always with the engine company for the most part,  you see.
And uh  you- you don't get away from your hose line.
You always-  that- for that's your- your avenue of escape, you see.
Well the way you came in,  is where the-  the hose line runs right along with you.
You don't get up, and walk away another part of a building, leave it sitting on the floor.
If you go somewhere else you carry the line with you, unless there's not a light in there.
You go into a dark building at night, has a lot of uh doors and closets and windows and whatnot-  you- uh not windows, doors and closets  and cubby holes,  you get turned around in there,  and forget where you came in.
A dark building at nights, of course,  you get lost in there, and you can get trapped.
I- cause I was be c- uh be careful about that.
I was always careful about that, you see.
And uh,  you always follow the hose line back to the exit.
And- but usually when I went to a building at nights,  or day either, when there's a lot of fire in there.
I-I go in for fire- for the fire,  and I put  I put the fire out,  you see.
Now of course, the fires can go around behind you.
That's the bad part about it.
The fire goes behind you just turn your head around and sweep- swipe the fire behind you.
You ought to put it out.
It definitely will put it out- put it out, you see.
Now if you swish it  like that, you see.
Don't  direct a stream right on the water- on the fire, you  sweep it, you see.
Smother it like.
And so I never had trouble-  uh- uh, a situation where  uh,  I was trapped and couldn't get out.
I was chased out of a room, out of a window one time at a fire.
Well this time I had left the hose, but it was in the daytime, I could see what I was doing.
It was one morning, about five thirty in the morning,  this house caught on fire and the-  I put the line down to p- throw the mattress out of the window.
The whole room was burning, you see, but I w- but I wanted to throw the mattress out of the window.
So,  in doing so, uh,  the whole room fill up- flared up behind me.
So,   but the- so happened that the, uh, the sergeant was right behind me.
And then I headed for the window-  See I picked the mattress up, and there was-  and it just went up in a-  big flame and it cut me off from my hose line, you see.
Because the window was next to me, so I headed for the window.
I couldn't get to the-  to the uh-  It-it got pretty hot in there that particular morning.
It was a small room, but I couldn't- it was - it was a-  The fire was pretty near the hose line, I couldn't get to it, so I went to the window.
But the sergeant pick up the hose and put the fire,  and I got the mattress.
He and I threw it out the window.
And then he put the fire- uh- that's rest of the room- rest of the room out too.
But I don't have many ca- case like that.
Oh that's true too, but uh, you can be-  be  careful about some s- some known things.
Now  there's a case of a building-  Uh we've had uh,  a ceiling falling on- on us, and hit us on the head, and knock the heck out of you.
That's happen- that happens anytime.
Ceiling fall on you, especially the old houses.
give you trouble too  and things like that, but-  Useless, please use your head, and don't be too much of a hero.
I've had men do- uh, go into a building, and uh-  uh,  you know,  try to find his company-  trying to get with his company.
That's a foolish thing to do.
You don't know where- you don't where the company is in a building that's burning.
You can't see your way in there,  why go in?
You'll be minus a man.
They got to stop fighting the fire to find you, you see.
Doesn't make any sense.
We had one up- We had down on uh-  on uh- G street one- one day,  and he's .
but he's a- he's a dead man.
You don't do things like that, you see.