Yeah.
Okay.
A majority- of the uh,  white kids at my school-  I would say the ones who play sports are the most open minded.
The others,  because they associate with me, and other  Negro students, and they  realize that  we're no- not that much diff- no different at all.
You know, we're just people.
Uh,  at our school- our school is extremely liberal.
The people at our school,  uh-  unfortunately, they don't understand all the problems that are going on.
They are sympathetic with most of the cause.
Most-  The- This is- That phrase I just used as a phrase, I would have been shot down for at Southeast.
They hate to be  the- have sympathy for.
Uh,  that  s- excuse me- for whites to have sympathy for them, that's the big thing.
They don't want sympathy, they want people to help.
Help because they  feel deeply that it's- it's necessary  to help.
It's- it's a  cause worth while, not  sympathy for someone, you know, sympathetic cause because in most-  in the most cases- like  a few people at my school,  are- I feel are bi-  big put ons.
They're  acting as if they accept me and  my fellow uh,  black students,  because  say a social status  uh,  requires this.
Th- um-  the social s-  the social code  is becoming now, where you-  because everything now is centered around  accepting the Negro as people,  the social code ha- wa- h- has required  that these people accept  um,  accept us socially.
It's no- if not, you know,  we- when we come to their homes, it doesn't really matter as much.
But,  it seems to me a lot of people  give  big fake smiles because they're trying to  um, uh,  uh, how can I say it?
They're trying  to impress.
They're trying to impress  their neighbors with how liberal they really are.
You know, twenty dollar this.
And their neighbors are doing it because they're trying to impress them, and so on and so forth.
It's no real  big feeling of  these people aren't different.
It's just that these people are different, but we don't anybody to know it, you know?
That's- Unfortunately, that's the feeling I get, but  honestly, the majority of the students at our school are real good about this.
They-  Most of 'em-  Unfortunately, this is another thing.
They-  they work more  in uh,  helping the Negro students, and it's poor people's campaign, you know,  trying to get food for the poor people.
They do more work in it, then  the middle class Negroes of our school do  because they feel  embarrassed  about  what their ancestors have done,  what's going on now, and they want somehow,  someway to help.
Therefore, they do a lot more toward this-  work-  in-  That's where majority of the students at our school are.
We don't really  recognize as much as-  Say at a public school, you would recognize that person was white.
We don't  do it half as much,  but there still are a small minority  who  they're-  I don't think there's anyone at our school who would be  out and out prejudice.
You'd- he'd cover it up some way, but there are a small minority  who are kind of sly about it.
And it's  fairly obvious  who they are.
You can  almost tell just by looking at 'em.
Well now,  the big thing with me is buying presents.
Used to be, I would  waiting for 'em, but now I don't know.
I have a lot of little cousins.
And  my immediate family takes up a lot of money.
In most cases,  the week before Christmas, I'm earning money,  trying to get all the money together I've been saving all year.
And then a couple of days b-  m-  before Chris- I'm buying the presents, and other- And after that, we're  setting up the  decorations and everything.
We set those up  I say about two or three days before Christmas.
We get everything together.
And then we just kind of wait.
Christmas day,  we  open our presents to begin with.
Then we  visit everybody.
And you go- It becomes a bore after a little while, you know you go to every- every little relative- some of you've never heard of before.
But they- you- my mother just seems to know where they live and everything.
And we  hit every relative's house, and show this and show that, and exchange this and exchange that.
And then occasionally,  when my uh,  grandmother was alive,  we'd go  to her house, either one of 'em.
One of- My father's mother,  lives in Baltimore.
We'd go there,  and  occasionally, every other year-  Excuse-  Yeah, I think it would be about every other year,  we go to  Tennessee  where my uh,  mother's mother is, and  that- that would be the big family reunion.
Everybody'd be there.
My mother has the biggest family.
Nine kids, yeah.
And everybody brings  their husband and  their wives and all that and everybody gets together.
And  it's a lot of fun.
Boring sometimes, but it's a lot of fun.
I don't really think so.
W- wait a minute.
I've had feelings ,  where I feel like I would collapse.
Not really  die.
On-  In the boy scouts a couple of times,  I've uh,  been on certain trips whereas  you climb mountains.
And it's- kind of frightening sometimes, especially when it's the first time.
And it's- I think I was  twelve-  twelve- No, I was thirteen.
And, it just so happened, I had been on two hikes before,  you know, just regular hikes.
They weren't anything spectacular.
Then all of a sudden,  we decided we were going  to climb uh,  this cliff,  just off of Chesapeake Bay,  and I can't remember the name of it now,  but it-  it was a good  Uh, I'd say it was about a hundred and fifty feet up.
And it wasn't really straight up, but it wa- it looked like it me on my way up there.
So the leader led the way, and I was somewhere in the middle,  and somehow,  I don't know- every time I looked back down,  I got that feeling as if something was gonna happen.
I don't know.
I made it up though,  and  then another time,  when I was going out for my hiking merit badge,  we were hi-  we had a hike.
We had to do a fifty mile hike in a day.
Before that I'd-  I just remember.
I've been playing baseball and football and  little bit of everything  that day,  and  all of a sudden I remember that  in-  uh, in order for my  last requirement for  my merit badge,  I'd have to  be at  the uh,  camp.
This is at  summer camp.
I'd have to be at the camp w- with my leader- my instructor rather,  by seven thirty.
Then we're going to have a night hike  of fifty miles.
You know, twenty five up and twenty five back.
On that trip-  That was one trip whereas-  we had to go over  a  rope bridge.
There were- one rope, and  two ropes hanging out.
And you have to walk across it,  and there was a stream running below it and it's  a good  seventy five foot drop.
You know, rocky and everything.
It was a little frightening.
I had an-  when- up- By the time I got to it, I was dead tired.
That was one time I thought I might not make it.
But I did it because everybody else was doing it, and, who wants to be the only, you know,  so I followed.
Yeah.
I- I don't really worry about it as much s-  When- when you're real tired though,  they say it's run through your mind real quick .
I don't really worry about  what's going to happen.
I figure if I'm gonna go,  I'll go.
Yes, very much so.
I- I don't really feel as if-  For instance,  if I was drafted,  I'd-  really I wouldn't want to go because  I don't know.
I don't mind being drafted, but um-  I'd  disagree with the war to begin with like most people my age do, but a lot of people  seemingly don't so we're there.
But,  if I were drafted,  I'd  uh,  if- a- and- if I had a strong enough feeling  against being drafted,  I'd rather  um,  I don't know.
I don't really  care about dying,  but  if I had a strong enough feeling against the draft,  instead of going over and being hypocritical about the thing,  and fighting because my sergeant says so  I'd probably just go into jail.
Which, I don't know which one I'd do now.
But I'm not really  afraid of dying.
I figure I'll die anyway, and  I-  I'm fairly religious.
I'm not, you know, extremely religious,  because, I don't know.
I do a lot weird things I'm not supposed to be doing.
But I do believe in God and if-  if God wants me to go, I figure I'll go when my time comes.