Well I played um,  usual games like  Kicking the Can, uh,  Stickball,  and  Hide and Seek.
Sometime baseball, you know.
Yes.
Well,    as I remember it, you kick the can,  then the- all the other kids, they run and go hide.
And then when they come back,  you know, when the person uh,  was  it he had to run and find the other kids.
Then when he come back,  he had to jump over the can in order to- f- to put them out.
And that's where that came from.
Well,  usually the ones like uh, usually run  like to a wall or distant and the last one that  get there, he's the one to be it.
No, um,  onliest one like,  this other game we played.
We never used no rhymes for the Kicking the Can.
Just Hide and Seek.
Like you say, ten, twenty, thirty five, forty, you know, things like this, and then uh, when he count to a hundred,  everybody supposed to be gone  and when they come back you know,  you have to full, run and find 'em.
Well in this particular game, I mean instead of jumping over can, you just run to a lamp post, tag the lamp post, and they it.
Well Stickball, I mean that was just uh,  an ordinary game we'd just play in the field.
You know like in-  when uh-  where I come from in Georgetown, well they had uh,  a lot-  you know, regular baseball- a lot-  you know this thing where do we have these sticks,  and we have a ball,  something like soccer or something like this, you know?
And we just take the stick and get to hit the ball  to one end of the field to the other.
Well we had two teams.
One be on the one side, and one be on the other side, and we just try to get the ball-  You know, see who can get the ball back over the other goal before the other one would.
Well,  we used to have a- something like this.
I mean it was similar-  where  one kid had to chase all the other kids, and once he  tag 'em,  then the other kid, he turn around and started chasing the rest of 'em again, you know?
Yeah.
Well I don't know.
We never did have a- Just called it chase.
Never did have a sufficient name for it.
Freeze!
Yeah, that was the a good game.
Yeah.
Uh,  well like uh,  you be-  Well it-  You could- This a type of game that you could play anytime.
And uh,  you just had a group  of uh, kids, to get together, girls and boys, you know,  and like,  we would be walking down the street, and one kid be uh-  have a  piece of candy or something, you know.
And we tell him to freeze.
If his fingers not crossed, he had to freeze.
And you go up and bite a piece of his candy oddly enough.
Something like that.
And uh, the way- We don't care where you at.
You have to stop,  you know, and stand still until they tell you to melt, you know, and then you melt and you can go ahead, you know.
Yes.
Well,  the- we used to play uh,  different kind of marbles like uh,  sometime we used to play marbles just  to uh, win the other kids' marbles,  who had, you know,  like drawing a circle.
Put all the marbles in the center, then uh,  you know, you shoot into the bunch and see if-  and once you bust the marbles out,  if one of the marbles roll out, then you continue to shoot.
But once you hit a marble and the marble didn't go outside the circle,  then you have to take your marble out and give the other kid a chance.
You know, shoot like that.
And then we have uh,  this other part of the marble game where another-  you shoot close to the line.
They call it Knuckles,  and you get close to the line-  if you get closer than other kid, then-  then you take the marble in your hand and shoot him on his knuckles with it, you know.
Everybody's tryna get the knuckles, you know?
Well just a round circle.
Uh- Yeah, draw it on the ground about  maybe  two-  about two or three feet in diameter.
You know?
Well,  I like um,  Mission Impossibles,  um,  Beverly Hillbillies,  um,  To Catch a Thief,  um,  let's see.
Perry Mason,  Mob Squad,  Lucy Show, um,  The Flintstones, um,  let me see.
The Jestons,  and I like all the Western they have on there.
Like uh, I forget the name some of 'em.
Um, Outcast, yes,  yes, Outcast.
And um, Bonanza, sure.
An- well, I like all the Western they have on  um, cause I just love Westerns anyway, you know.
I love it.
Trying to think.
I'm  tryna think in the um-  Well in Mission Impossible, I remember one story- Well,  they had this vault  in this basement,  and this uh-  a villa.
And uh,  they was trying to get  to it-  No, that was Take a Thief.
That's the one, yeah.
To Take a Thief.
Because uh- Yeah, because see uh,  they- they had to bring this uh-  the thief out of the United States and take him over to uh- I think it was  one of those countries in uh,  South America.
And um,  the main attraction was to  get  to the safe,  open it,  get the plans out  and bring 'em back.
You know, back to States.
So uh,  they was going over there- Well  over there- He needed some help  and getting this- pulling this uh,  caper off.
But  he had another fella from uh, South America  that he taught how to steal everything,  you know.
How to-  and so when he got to this particular hotel,  uh, he had a decoy with him.
This girl, she was with him.
And uh, just ha- he had agents.
He was with him.
Well they was all sposta been separate, just-  other than him and the girl was on- for two was together.
Well this other fella, he was um-  he heard in the paper- seen that he was coming to they country,  and he seen it.
So he decide to go there hisself because he knows  gonna be something stolen, and he wanted in- wanted be- want a piece of the pie.
So uh, he got the-  or-  he got there-  The other two had already got there.
The one from the United States was already there and they checked in a hotel.
So when he arrived,  he uh, gave the desk clerk  some sob story  to get a room  right next door  to the-  his other friend, you know.
So uh, while he was talking at the desk, uh,  his friend shows up,  and he seen him, you know, coming through the lobby and then  they greeted one another, you know.
And he wanted to know what he was doing there cause they were supposed to be going to see uh,  I think it was something like a hockey game or something like this you know.
So uh,  they checked in back in their room.
So when they got up to their room,  the fella from South America-  the thief from South America, he uh, put this  wall tap on the side of the wall  so he- he had a conversation what was going on in the next roo- apartment where this thief from the United States was at, so when uh,  the girl  and the thief got in the room,  they started talking.
Well,  he knowed that this other fella  would  pull something like this, so he started giving him some way out plans,  you know?
So anyway,  they uh, had made plans for to  go to this villa  to see if- how they could,  you know, arrange to get into this particular safe.
Well the safe  was surrounded  by this uh,  thick bar- not barbed wire, but  uh- bar- on bars,  and the safe was on the inside  with a black panther walking around the safe.
Then from the outside, you couldn't get from- to it from outside because it was surrounded by water,  and it had this uh,  um-  alarm system set up  around the outside of the border, you know, sort of keeping him out from getting through.
So when they decide to go out there to  to look- They looked at it one day.
The next night,  he was going out there.
He had dressed in all these black clothes.
But when he get there,  you know,  to go through the changes of getting through the fence and all that.
He tell his fella, say,  well we can rest awhile now because my other friend, he already been here, and beat us to it.
He gone in there, you know.
Well anyway, they uh-  they went through a lot of changes  but they did wind up getting to the safe.
They drugged the uh, pamper-  the panther.
They drugged him and uh, well this thief from United States, he real slick with his hands.
He open the safe, got the plans out,  got away with it, you know?
Well only one movie.
They had made but one movie.
One movie, that's The Wild Bunch.
That's the only movie they ever made.
Really.
The Wild Bunch, The Magnificent Seven, you know?
But I've seen um-  On my way up from uh,  Alabama,  I  just came back  home from uh, Mobile.
And I stopped- We had a layover  in uh, Atlanta, Georgia,  and uh,  well I decided to come on into the town  and see- just to see The Wild Bunch cause I heard so much talk about The Wild Bunch, you know?
But you talking about a magnificent picture.
I'm tryna find it again.
It was up on U Street- It was on U Street, but I missed it.
Because I- and you know-  had to go to Pennsylvania,  things like that, and come back.
But I missed it.
Beautiful picture.
That picture is nice.
Oh well it was about  these bandits.
Well they-  well,  they was really robbers and uh, well you know,  but they was  mainly on- around Mexico.
You know, around on the  Rio Grande and border  and Texas,  things like that.
And onliest thing they was doing, they was stealing like crazy.
They robbing the banks,  and I don't know.
It seemed like the uh-  the sound,  uh, the blood when a person was shot  and how realistic it looked.
Like when they was in this uh, v- big vat- They had a big large vat.
Well this was after they robbed uh,  one of the towns-  They got the money, so they come into this uh,  you know, village, and uh, they was uh,  celebrating they uh,  winnings you know.
And uh, they decide they wanna bath and things like this, and they wanted food and they want to drink.
So uh, these  two, just two particular ones, I forget the names now, other than uh,  Borgnine.
I remember his name,  and uh, I forget the other one- main character's name.
But anyway  they uh,  were celebrating, and these other two, they went out and they decided they want to  be different.
So uh,  they went to um,  the wine cellar,  and they had these three Mexican women, you know.
And they shot into the  barrels of big  big  huge vats of wine.
And drinking wine, you know.
And they decide they want to uh,  sure enough, get into the thing.
So they got into the vat,  you know.
And they had these women, they took off their clothes in the vat and all this stuff.
I mean it was really wild, you know.
Like uh,  near the end of the picture when um-  when the most uh-  when these- was four of 'em-  Well they had this Mexican-  The Mexican  was the one that uh-  was the onliest one that wasn't- with them, that wasn't American, and that's the one uh,  the General  from uh,  the Mexican Army- part of this Mexican Guerrilla Army  had cut his throat.
Well they actually had him captured for a long time, dragging him around.
He was all skinned up and scarred up and thing.
So uh,  he only had- they only had four left-  four men left when they took the Mexican.
So they decide they want to go, so they went to this uh-  It was in the village  when they had stole all these guns and things for the Mexican  and sold it to 'em.
Well I'm telling it in pieces, you know.
And uh, they gave 'em all these guns and things like that-  and they sold 'em to 'em rather, you know, for gold.
And after they got all this loot, they headed  what- uh- na-  cause this old man he got captured and shot.
Well anyway, they went in town just to see what they was gonna do about the Mexican.
They want to buy him back.
They wouldn't sell it to 'em.
Finally this general, he was real mean.
He say, well you want this fella, you know.
He said, yes, so they took the Mexican  Got him by his hair, pull him to him.
Pull out his knife,  and he looked at him.
It was four of 'em standing there,  all four of 'em.
Well, I think it's Robert something- I forget his name- well he had  one, two, three,  four-  He had four guns and a pump shotgun  and a couple more of 'em, I think.
All of 'em had shotgun- pump shotguns.
But all 'em had two or three pistols with 'em too, you know.
Well this town was full of Mexican.
Nobody-  They had about  probably close to two hundred Mexicans in this town.
You know?
And only four of them.
So uh,  they took this Mexicans-  Mexican that  was supposed to have betrayed 'em, grabbed him by his hair  took a knife and  cut his throat.
You could see the blood-  I mean you just could see everything.
It was so- and the  sound, you know,  pushed him down.
So uh,  Borgnine, he was standing beside this other fella, and they looked at one another.
He bowed his head, and they started shooting.
They- I think they musta killed about a hundred Mexic- a hundred- two hundred Mexicans there- All, but all them got killed.
And all of them got killed- all- you know.
But the picture was so magnificent you know.
I don't believe that I don't even know- I don't think they could make another picture that good, you know.
Not a Western.
Aw yeah.
I'm definitely gonna try to find it.
Mm-hm.
German Shepherd.
Rex.
Well I mean, onliest thing he do, he- like uh,  I can  throw things.
He'll go get it.
You know.
But I don't know.
He- He is kind of weird acting dog.
Like I take him to the country, you know, he catch rats.
He catch rats, yeah.
He catch rats.
They'll be as large as he is, you know.
I take him by my father's place in Vienna,  you know.
And uh, f- like the field rats,  he catching them.
Rats running around the house, he catch them.
But he won't bother no cats.
He won't bother no cats.
About two and a half years.
Oh it's nice.
It nice.
He won't- he won't let anybody in the house  unlessing he know you, you know?
Then if he know you,  you know, once he uh,  go to the door, he'll greet you at the door.
He greet everybody at the door, you know.
Once he know you won't say nothing, just go and sit down.
Well,  what grade?
In the fourth grade?
Yeah, well I mean, we had  uh-  well I liked Arithmetic anyway, and they had Arithmetic.
Adding and subtraction in the fourth grade.
And um,  Reading.
Just certain things of- of this nature.
Fight.
Fight  every day.
Every day.
I don't know.
It look like it wasn't no school unless you got in a fight  and go home dirty.
You know, no kidding.
Mm- Well,  well during this time, you know,  like I'm thirty two.
Well during this time uh, clothes kind of hard to get, you know.
And lunch was kind of hard to come by, you know.
And you come home, and you uh,  a little dirty,  a little bloody,  your mother want to know where you been, what you been doing, did you go to school today, you know.
You tell her yeah, you went to school,  but one of the kids jumped on you.
And she said, well did you fight him back?
Yeah, I fought him back.
Well okay.
Go on, wash up, come and get your dinner.
You know?
If you say, no, you know, I was scared, or too many of 'em,  then you get another whipping you know, for not taking up for yourself, yeah.
Well I mean,  I don't know if you know anything about Georgetown or not,  but Georgetown was one of the-  I don't know, one of the roughest places  that-  well, Georgetown and Foggy Bottom are the-  of Washington, is- was  one of the roughest  neighborhoods that you could come out of.
And uh, and most like you  live by the sword, you die by the sword, or something of this nature, but you had to be strong  in order to survive in those places.
Like you go to school,  and you have your lunch.
Well you have  peanut butter and jelly or something like this, take 'em to school with you.
And uh,  you couldn't protect yourself,  then one of the larger kids, he'll come and take your lunch,  you know?
And if you fight him back,  then they wouldn't bother you because they say, well he got heart, you know.
But if you wouldn't fight back, you never had no lunch, you know.
And uh,  like in the-  When you want to go to a movie,  like on a Saturday.
That's the main time we go to movie.
The movie cost you about eleven cent to go to movie.
You go to a movie and have your little eleven cent-  maybe fifteen,  twenty cent  cause you wanna buy popcorn.
So you go to a movie,  and you got your eleven cent.
You plan on going in.
Then you got the fellas on the outside of the movie.
They'll take your money from you,  you know.
So you had to fight.
You had to fight.
It wasn't a thing like,  you could compromise or anything like that, you had to fight.
If you fight.
You was a coward or something like that, you know.
Well, do you mean in elementary school?
Well,  usually start about games.
Like you have a game,  playing ball at twelve o'clock.
You have a ball game,  you know,  for the kids out there.
And one of the kids may say,  well,  you didn't hit the ball right, or  you was out,  and you say you wasn't out.
Say well, okay, we'll see you after school.
You know, and we meet after school and we fight, you know.
That's all it was to it.
You had to fight.
No, the teenagers  during that particular time,  they fought  amongst themselves,  but the younger kids, you know,  they fought.
But the older kids would make sure it wasn't no  larger kids jump in it  while you was fighting  unless y'all just had a free for all, then the older kids just sit back and laugh and watch it, you know what I mean?
You may have about ten or twelve of y'all be out there fighting,  you know?
Best you could get was a bust open lip, your nose bleed, you know?
But it wasn't nothing serious.
Well, now  I believe- I don't think that the kids fight  half as much  as they did during that particular time  for the simp- simple reason that um,  they have other things on their mind  such as robbing banks, uh,  shooting one another,  you know, and things like this.
But  during the time I was coming up I mean,  people could believe in going out and  throwing up your little fists and fight  somebody, but now they don't go for this, you know.
You got mostly teenagers out there- You walk down the street, seen a kid the other day, you know.
He couldn't been more than about fourteen years old.
He had a pistol in his belt big as he was.
You know?
So how you- you know, you- wasn't those kind of things, you know.
See our town is so corrupted with this kind of thing, and then you try to figure out- Say well,  like my little cousin,  you know,  I keep on him so tight, you know, he gonna have time to do it so much.
And I'm'a bring him down here so he can  interview.
But uh,  he's-  he's a little wild.
He'll fight  but they got a lot of activity for the younger kids now.
Look like the uh- the new thing-  uh,  the community houses,  you know, things like that.
And then you catch the younger kid  around  seven,  eight,  ten,  twelve,  twelve years old.
Maybe thirteen.
They don't do  half as much fighting  as they did  when I was a kid.
You know.
Cause they have so much other things going for 'em now.
Yeah, Miss RD-NAME-2.
Well,   I used to like to play with the girls you know.
Always liked to play with the girls.
I had a little girl-  Her name was RD-NAME-2- Sat in front of me all the time.
Almost married her too.
W- She had this long hair.
You know, real long hair.
And she used to keep it open,  and I used to take  things and put it in her hair, you know.
When uh,  she get up,  you know, go somewhere, you know,  her hair be all tangled up.
Or  if I tie her hair to the seat,  when she get up,  yank her head back you know.
And this teacher named Miss RD-NAME-2, she used to have a fit.
Hollering and screaming and get me out of there, you know, call me up the front all the time.
We really something.
Nah,  I didn't mind it.
I didn't mind it.
Because I knew I was doing wrong, I just wanted to have fun.
You know.
She didn't think it was too funny.
She didn't think it was too funny.
But after we got into high school, I mean, you know, it was different anyway.
Mm-hm.
Naw.
Yes, Miss RD-NAME-3.
Real nice.
I don't know.
Seem like she took uh,  special interest in-  in all the kids.
She was take 'em to their- to her house.
She was- Yeah.
Take 'em- Well- Mm-hm.
Take 'em to house, give 'em dinner, take 'em to games,  you know, baseball games.
On her spare time, with her own money,  you know.
Buy you things.
Yeah.
Well I mean, she was-  t- had-  it had several teachers in the school like that, but they had  the certain kids that they would take, you know.
Well look like she would take the worst kids you could find.
She wouldn't take the good ones.
Naw, she get the worst one she could find.
And uh,  well now I know why,  but during that time I didn't, you know.
She was using- This-  She's just using uh, just enough sight  on the kid  to win him.
And she would win him.
Anything she asked any kid to do they would do it, you know?
Like she ask the good little kids,  and they refuse,  watch out buddy.
When you got out of school, you got it, you know what I mean?
From the bigger and badder children, you know.
Yeah she was real nice.
Real nice.
Yeah, Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
Sheet Metal teacher.
I don't know.
He-  he was alright  in his fashion but he was just a little too old fashion.
He wanted everything to be like um, it was  when he was a kid.
Even though, I mean, he was-  He would  teach you right.
Like uh, one time I was in the metal shop, and uh,  I was making something- I forgot what it was- I was making something.
And he come in,  and I'm putting  everything in to this  particular item.
And he come in hollering and screaming and snatched the thing a-  from the lathe, slammed it in the floor, told me, that's wrong!
And I don't want it done like that no more, you know.
And this look like I just create a hate for him right away, you know.
I wouldn't never go to him anymore.
I just failed, you know.
I wouldn't go there.
Because the man, you know-  Well during that time, you know, like going to junior high school and high school, I mean,  there's only so much you c- cause you stay tense, you know.
That's when you begin to sure enough, stretch out with the girls.
You start thinking about girls more so then you know.
And I couldn't stand that,  and the fellas around there you know.
I had a couple more-  My buddies, you know.
We both-  all of us just stopped going there  all together you know.
you know, we failed.
But we made up in other subjects, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was in with the trick.
We cut school one day and went down the creek.
So we caught this black snake  and put him in a bag,  you know?
So we get to school,  the teacher got,  you know-  We got-  We cut school-  said we cut  three periods.
So we just got-   went to homeroom.
We cut the first,  second,  and lunch was third, and we cut the fourth.
We come back.
So we decided we going to uh,  put it on our homeroom teacher so uh,  went back s- and got  for the homeroom teacher  RD-NAME-2.
And uh,  she got this bag that she carry you know, with her all the time.
You know, keep this bag with her.
So we go up there and take this bag when she out to the principal's office for something.
One of the kids had got  real mean in the back  just to get her out there you know.
Then she left,  and we go up the front,  take this bag with the snake in it you know,  stick it in her bag  and go back.
Wait.
Come back.
I put a little girl up there  and told her to say,  teacher,   say uh, one of the boys in the room  put something out- looked in your bag.
Yeah, say, looked in your bag.
We don't know if she took anything out or not, but he ran back out the door,  you know.
So she say, what?
So she run over there- She musta keep her money in there or something, you know.
So she run over to her bag,  open it up,  pulled out the paper bag,  runs .
Pulls out the snake and get to screaming and hollering and running, you know.
And we died laughing.
We laughed and laughed and laughed.
Yeah, that was something else.
Had it all planned.
And the snake wasn't dead.
It was just almost dead because we was gonna  kill him all together, you know.
Decided not to kill him cause we make so much of a mess you know.
Huh?
Did she holler?
She had to take her home.
Yes, she went in hysterics.
She was screaming.
Hm?
She just looked.
Just looked around the room you know, just looked.
Mm-mm.
Wasn't about to tell nobody, on nobody .
Well during that time  I didn't  think it was a bad kid.
-  Of an an- I mean, you know, like, you have  some of the kids  that was better than the other ones,  but I didn't see-  Well I know a  couple of cases where  he had a couple of kids that was going to school with me that  wound up going to farming school, you know,  because they uh,  wouldn't come to school or they was out stealing or something like this, you know.
Oh we had a couple of those.
We had a couple of those.
Yeah.
No, this- this stuff that I'm talking about.
They had a- Yeah, one fella-  Well I won't call his last name but his name was RD-NAME-1.
And while- When he was younger, he carried a crutch on his shoulder, you know .
Then when he got in junior high school,  his chest got a little larger, and he started carrying more weight because he was larger than the rest of the kids you know.
And he just go around bullying,  you know.
When the kids say something he didn't like, he slap 'em down.
You know, the kids scared to fight him back.
You know.
One day he slapped one of my friends,  and my friend say, well we're gonna have to do something about this cause the dude slapped me a couple of times himself you know what I'm saying?
Said we were gonna have to do something about this fella, you know.
I said, yeah, we're gonna have to do something because he really taking advantage of us.
Take our lunch when he felt like it,  you know.
We're going in the cafeteria, you know.
Like you buy your lunch and sit down at the table, and he come past and he feel that he wanna sandwich or your soup,  he just take it.
You know?
Who gonna say something to him, big as he was, you know?
He was a brute.
So we decided we gonna get our heads together, so we got our heads together, about twelve of us.
You know?
Say, well, we'll wait for RD-NAME-1 this evening.
You think we can handle him?
You know?
We got to handle him.
Okay, what you gonna do?
Well we got some sticks you know.
We got a bunch of sticks  and waited for him.
He come out there, the school that day.
We was in junior high school.
He come out the school.
One of the little kids over there, know what I'm saying?
Hey RD-NAME-1.
Why'd you take my lunch the other day?
He said, what you trying to be smart or something with me, boy?
You know?
Then all of us started getting around him.
He was trying to figure out how he was gonna get- And we wore him out.
You get what I'm saying?
He ran so fast, I don't know, the police was- You know how you have police directing traffic up there on the corner?
He ran flat past the police.
The police try to catch up with him, and we tryna catch up with him.
Finally uh, the next day- they caught a bunch of us-  asked us why we did, you know.
We told 'em,  you know?
So the next day in school,  theys-  they uh, expelled him from school.
You know, for this.
Because I mean, you know,  there- it- it wasn't a school for him because he was just taking advantage of all the kids, you know.
That was about the onliest bully I ever known of.
Well, we had a club.
Mm-hm.
The Rag Mops.
It was a- Well,  who was it?
It was RD-NAME-2,  one fella name RD-NAME-1, he got killed in Korea.
Um,    um,  RD-NAME-3,  he got killed in Korea.
Um,  RD-NAME-2,  j- just ranned off.
Um,  oh it was- it w-  it- I couldn't possibly call all the names cause it was around seventy,  eighty of us.
Yes, and we uh-  Well what it was, w-  was  start off as- just as a-  a club, just wanted to do nothing but just mess around fight.
You know, we fight, go to parties, turn 'em out,  things like that.
And then uh, we had uh,  the Columbia Lodge,  which was the Elk's Home on Third and Rhode Island Avenue.
They took an interest in it, just- you know,  because they say, well, why let a  bunch of  half way decent kids go completely bad?
So they took us under their wing,  and made uh,  Junior Elks out of us.
And we um,  formed a baseball team,  a boxing team,  swimming team, a track team,  and we used to compete  with uh,  other Elks  in different parts of the country you know.
And uh,  North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,  Mississippi, Alabama.
All around, yeah.
No we'd-  we would go to these places and they come here to see, and uh-  uh, way we got the money, we uh,  ran raffles,  you know,  and had dances.
Well we had- have a dance and if another group have a dance, we go to their group, turned out, they come to our dance, you know .
You know what I'm saying.
But we used to uh-  used to make real good money,  you know for this-  these particular activities that we had  made enough money to buy uniforms.
Made enough money buy uh,  boxing trunks, boxing gloves,  baseball,  y- everything, you know.
For our trips,  we bought a bus,  you know.
Yeah, we bought a bus, everything, you know.
Stayed together a good little while  then it-  it was uh- war started breaking most of us up, you know.
Cause uh, I think the youngest one was around seventeen.
Well,  I-  Let's see.
Well one of the fella was-  was speaks French.
I was speaking Spanish.
And that's about the onliest one, just the two of us.
I learned Spanish from Puerto Ricans.
Yeah.
Yes, had two.
No,  just the two Puerto Rican boy.
They- they're's the only one that had enough heart to come in it.
Well we try to get some white kids in it,  but they wouldn't- I don't know, they-  No, it wasn't that.
Well,  cause I had a  very good friend of mine.
His name is RD-NAME-2.
He own one of the  biggest uh, stores now in Baltimore, clothing store.
Well we used to run around together even though- Before they even had this um,  racial thing, you know, selling 'em or something like this.
Well I used to go whites- white Boy's Club, you know.
And it wasn't nothing said because RD-NAME-2 and a few more of his friends, you understand,  Italian friend,  they was real rough, you know.
They'll fight in a minute.
Onliest colored one I ever went to the Lado Theater, which was on Wisconsin Avenue, you know.
Nobody say nothing because we'll burn down the theater.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
And RD-NAME-2 the onliest one that coulda got in the club, that really-   He say, nah.
He had other things on his mind.
But he moved out, you know.
Well,  you had a Exalted Ruler and you had a Junior Exalted Ruler.
Well uh,  Exalter Ruler which was- His name was RD-NAME-2.
He was Exalted R-  He was a Junior Exalted Ruler, and I was Esteemed Leading Knight, which was second in command, you know, like a captain and things like that.
And uh, well we had  these other  kids under us in  different  office, you know.
Little breakdown.
I don't know.
Looks seem as though we had  more on the ball  somewhat  than the rest of the kids did.
I mean it's not that uh-  cause  RD-NAME-2,  he couldn't fight at all.
No but he had a whole lots upstairs, you know.
Well I could handle myself,  but I  also like  you know,  to stop and think before I did anything, you know.
And that's the way that went down.
Well,  he had to um,  come and be initiated,  and if he couldn't uh, stand up to initiation, then he couldn't get in the club anyway.
And initiation was pretty rough.
Yeah, huh?
That's  be  when- before we went in-  and if a kid wanted to go in-  Well we used to choose our own kids to bring in the club.
You know,  neighborhood kids  because uh, like,  we have all the kids from Georgetown,  all hooked up in this club.
At first was about twenty of 'em.
And these- No, not then.
Yeah.
Because uh, we was just had this one tight group from Georgetown  that would partic- You know, like uh, the Foggy Bottom which was across the bridge, and uh, if some- one of them fellas over there messing with one of our fellas than we have a little war.
But uh,  we start easing away from that because we start bringing 'em in  from different section of city.
And we wind up bringing all 'em in.
Reason we did this is so we could go travel anywhere we want to travel.
RD-NAME-2 and I, we sat down and we thought about this thing you know.
Why just be uh, at one place,  and we can't move in other parts of the city.
Why not bring in some of the kids out of the other parts of the section of the city?
Then we be able to travel everywhere we want to go.
Say true.
So we decided and went out and started recruiting, you know.
We started recruiting the baddest kids we could find in the other neighborhoods, you know?
Northeast, Southeast, Southwest, you know.
And we'd bring them in the club.
Then they bring a couple of kids in the club, you know.
Then the club started getting larger and larger.
Then we got so large, N- Yeah.
After we got in the-  in the uh, Elks?
Well they had a little initiation set up for us, you know.
Well not uh,  big initiation, but the little initiation.
Uh,  well now  they used to talk about riding a donkey,  you know,  where they blindfold you,  take off all your clothes  and you go on through this line,  you know.
Everybody got a paddle and-  you know, and they wear you out, you know, you going through,  and after they wear you out, they get you always through the end of the line, they got some uh-  some kind of chemical stuff all mixed up, which is real bitter,  and tell you to drink it.
You  drink it.
You know, if you like it, you spit it out.
If you didn't like it, you spit it out.
If you like it, drink it- swallow it.
Nobody swallowed that stuff.
You know?
Then uh, they lay you down.
He didn't know where he was at,  you know.
All of a sudden you hear some click.
Then you snatch this thing off your head, you know.
You wanna know where you at.
You push up,  feel all this velvet  feeling stuff.
Wanna know what's happening.
Finally opened up this box,  and you laying in a casket.
Yeah.
It was weird though.
It was good fun but it was weird.
Well I don't know.
I don't know.
Cause I mean, where I come from, you know,  it was  really nice.
I mean it was a rough  and a rundown neighborhood.
It was a ghetto.
I mean don't nobody wanna be from the ghetto,  nobody.
But I mean, if I had it all to do over again, and if I was from the ghetto, I'd just be from the ghetto.
Because I had more fun in the ghetto I guess.
You know, and there probably kids would- from out the ghetto woulda had.
Like we used to go uh, fishing.
When I was a kid, I would go fishing  in the canal.
And uh,  we would catch fish with the line.
Then we decided we got tired of fishing, and we go swimming.
Then after we got tired of swimming,  we wanted  catch some fish for the-  everybody in the neighborhood,  we go down and open the locks of the canal up-  open 'em up- open the whole thing up,  and go down and take sticks and bust the fishes in the head.
Get baskets and baskets of fish and give 'em away to everybody.
Anybody wanted they could have 'em, you know?
Oh like uh,  people we'd go around, you know, a bunch of kids, you know, find out  who don't have coal in their house,  uh,  who, you know,  getting kind of ready to get put out  or something like that,  well uh, all the grownups, they usually look out for one another.
Like uh, on that street,  and we'd go down the railroad tracks, you know,  take these uh, little wagons down there.
Steal coal,  you know, bushel baskets of coal,  bring it back up,  give it to the people who don't have coal, you know.
And everybody just like one family.
Well the street was only a block long,  reached from M Street to K Street,  you know.
Was-  was colored and white  on both sides of street, you know, other than the gas house.
And everybody just live,  you know,  just as one family.
I mean it was the ghetto but  you can have fun in the ghetto too, you know.
If I had all the money I want?
What would I do with it?
Hm.
That's pretty good.
Number one, I'd a buy me a house.
I'd definitely buy me a house and furnish it out nice.
And I'd buy it in one of the most exclusive neighborhoods I possibly could get it in.
And I'd buy um  all the clothes and things that I  really wanted  but never ab-  could afford to buy.
And my children, I'd buy them everything that they really want.
And I'd bring my wife from Alabama back to Washington.
And  well quite naturally, you know, I'd have a automobile.
Uh, not no Cadillac now.
Not no Cadillac.
But a automobile.
And that'd be about all I want.
Well- Well I had more money left, well I had  you know,  my people is comfortable and not myself.
Then I go out  like around to these uh,  different community houses,  and try to figure out new programs for the children, you know,  where I could use the money to help them.
You know,  cause to me- you- we-  our city now is so corrupted, you  have so many people from the outside.
I don't really believe that  like the crime in our city, I don't believe that it's all our children fault.
I mean I think you have around uh- From the District  itself, I think it's about  twenty percent  of the people in the District  is actually was born and raised in Washington, about twenty percent.
Other eighty percent I think is from outer c- other cities and things like that.
Yeah, well- If I was a dictator?
If I was a dictator, like um-  and I could  get the things that I was uh,  campaigning for, you mean?
Well,  all these houses,  like um,  all messed up and things like this,  I would have 'em all tore down,  but I would have a place for the families to go in first.
I would have all these houses built back up  and put the same people  back in these houses  at the same rent  level  where they could survive.
And  I would definitely have a home rule where the people could uh, govern themself, you know.
Have war leaders and things like that.
And it wouldn't be, you know, a thing like um-  Let me say for instance, say,  you go to a store  and you  order something and  you know, you don't have enough money to pay for it.
You done order all this food up, you know, and you don't have enough money to pay for it.
I think that a person- I would have it so uh, they'll write out  their name, their address, and their phone number,  and pay 'em at a later date.
You know.
I know that uh,  people in the store probably thinks that, well, we gonna lose.
Well they wouldn't lose  because I have a fund set aside just for this thing, if the people wouldn't pay 'em back.
Mm-hm.
What I do?
Oh, I drink coffee.
I like music.
I have a portable radio I carry it out with me.
Listening to music.
Until a passenger get in the car and then  cut it off,  and just take the passenger.
Where you going?
Or she going.
Then I may not dead head back.
I mean not right away.
I may go to uh-  stop at a bar,  get me a beer.
Drink a beer.
Probably get a sandwich or something like that.
Then I go back to the work- back to the  line.
Catch me another fare,  probably goes somewheres else, maybe go in to Dulles, maybe go in downtown Washington, maybe going to  back in Virginia or something like this.
But I enjoy my work,  you know.
It's no uh,  strain.
Yeah, you get a- on a percentage.
Yes.
Well  On Christmas, most of the time, see- Now, like my father,  he living in V- Vienna, well that's only a short distance from here, about nine mile.
Well my brother  he live in Philadelphia,  and it's kind of hard for him to get down here w- during the cold season,  and my cousin,  she live in uh,  California.
Well it's kind of difficult for her to get here even though it's warm in California, but it's cold here.
Kind of hard for them to get-  Most of the time we get together is like um,  on the Fourth  or on Labor Day.
You know, that's the onliest time we really have for family reunion.
We uh, have uh,  barbeque.
Uh, we uh,  drink a plenty beer  and things like- have a dance or something like that,  you know.
That's main time we get together.
Yeah.
Yes.
Uh,    I um-  I was hit in the stomach about-  a couple of years ago.
Not intentionally,  but in a, you know-  on a- one of these uh, type of jobs where  mess around with steel, and this  bar hit me across my stomach.
Okay.
It almost knocked me off the building.
I worked for RD-WORK-4 during that time.
Well uh,  it didn't bother me too much at that time.
You know, I just thought the blow but it wasn't nothing really.
So uh, that evening I got off,  and uh, s-  a bunch of us got  together cause it was on a pay day.
And we  drank some liquor,  drank some beer,  and I just told 'em that's when I'm going home.
You know, cause I- I don't know, I started feeling a nausea.
So I went home  and uh,  took a hot bath,  had dinner,  set down,  looked at television.
At night I went to bed.
Next morning I couldn't get out the bed.
You know.
I was just in  cramps and  binds and pain.
So uh,  right when I did get me up,  you know, took me to the hospital.
I stayed on Critical there s- for almost five days.
Yeah.
It was tubes down my nose you know, drawing the bruise blood out of my stomach and all of this kind of jazz, you know.
Not really- Yeah, I was messed up.
You know, they was giving me this um,  some type of fluid  in the feed.
You know, couldn't eat anything.
You know.
Then this tube down my nose, which is pump- working twenty four hours a day.
The whole time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well I stayed in the hospital for about three and a half weeks,  but I was staying on Critical that's f- about five days.
Mm.
Mm-hm.