Uh, I was born in, uh, Landover, Maryland.
PG Hospital.
In Landover.
In Seat Pleasant.
I grew up in Kentland though, that's a part of Landover but  I lived like, you know what I'm saying, I lived like all Landover but like-  like I got all my bones in- in- in Kentland, like  I learned how to do everything in Kentland.
Kentland, yup.
That's the neighborhood.
See Landover's just a city, but the actual neighborhood was Kentland.
But I lived in different parts of Landover.
For what,  uh, two years now?
A year?
A year and some change.
Might as well say two.
Mississippi.
For about six months.
Like six months.
What flavor would you like?
A lime girl, there you go, there you go lime girl.
Um, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
That was elementary school I went to.
Um,  then I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, that was another elementary school.
They changed after they transferred us from RD-SCHOOL-2, they opened up a new RD-SCHOOL-2 it was RD-SCHOOL-2.
And middle school that I went to, uh,  RD-SCHOOL-4.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
He was a judge I think.
No RD-SCHOOL-2 was a judge.
I don't know who James was.
And the high school I went to was RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um, in Seat Pleasant.
Well it's in Fairmount Heights, nah it's in Fairmount Heights, Fairmount Heights is it's own city matter of fact.
Yeah.
It's in Fairmount Heights.
Yeah.
Um, right now?
Uh,  what can I say,  I'm a entrepreneur.
I'm an entrepreneur.
My mom was born in PG Hospital,  I don't know where my daddy was born.
Either Virginia or North Carolina, one of the two.
Uh, my mom-  my father he a ret-  ve- uh,  retired military vet and my mom she still currently working  for a hotel.
Rough, it was rough, it was rough.
The neighborhood I lived in they was all rough.
Just, uh,  I don't know.
I can't-  I don't know.
This is the uncomfortable part right here.
I don't know it was just rough, you know what I'm saying, you just seen this-  it wasn't no-  we had rec centers and stuff like that, you know what I'm saying, we'd go play basketball and stuff like that.
But it's just like,  where you playing basketball,  everybody just still hanging out doing what they doing.
You know what I'm saying.
You just see a lot of violence and  a lot of loose women,  you know what I'm saying.
A lot of drugs and stuff like that.
It's just But it was cool though, it was cool cause it was a like, you know what I'm saying, you used to it like you grow up in a certain way so it's like you used to it, you look at it like-  a person on the outside look at it like oh that's crazy but it was just like, you get used to it like it was just- it was cool cause it was just like  it ain't coming my way, we could still play basketball it was just like- but if you- you see what's going on, you know what I'm saying.
So like you kind of get around it but  it was cool though, you know what I'm saying, it was a lot of love and stuff like that, it's cool.
Yeah the community was real cool, like, you know what I'm saying, everybody knew everybody like everybody messed with everybody you know what I'm saying.
People had their issues and stuff like that- yeah, I got two sisters.
Younger and one older.
Well my- my sister- yeah my older sister like, my- my older sister yeah, she was out there, you know what I'm saying, she was out there too you know what I'm saying, she's four years older than me so it was like, she was out there doing her thing having fun and stuff too but like my little sister, she was more like sheltered like by the time she got of age like she was- we already had,  you know what I'm saying,  established what's going on, and you ain't about to be out there doing all this and that you know what I'm saying so like,  she grew up  like different from us she was r- real like  like .
Me and my older sister we was out there, like she wasn't really- she ain't really  experienced the stuff that we experienced like that.
Nah, the apartments- I always lived in apartments so I wanted to go live with my father like I always lived- my mom, we always lived in apartments.
You know what I'm saying.
That's what I said, we lived in Landover- lived in Dodge View at first, that was in Landover.
And then we moved from over there  we moved to um-  we moved over to um-  we moved over to Kentland.
That was like, across the highway.
And we lived there for probably like- probably like, what like,  ten-  ten, twelve years, something like that.
For a long time.
And then we moved right down the street to Seat Pleasant.
So it was like always apartments.
When I moved with my father  like I was like, fifteen?
When I went out in Mississippi I was like fifteen years old, you know what I'm saying, he had a house, you know what I'm saying.
He was doing his thing but,  I couldn't get with that.
They was talking about  you gotta come in the house at seven o'clock, like the s- the lights ain't even came on like I mean like it ain't even like- it's still light outside you talking about come in the house, it was- that was a whole n- different language so like I couldn't deal with that.
But nah, I always lived in apartment though with mama dukes.
Nah I didn't.
No I- I did-  I did but I didn't.
Like I liked to go to school,  but I didn't like to go to class and like do work and stuff, like I liked to go to school cause like I was popular like everybody liked me and stuff like that but it was just like  to go do the work and all that like nah, I ain't like school.
Nah.
Yeah like and one year when I was at elementary school like my mom,  think it was like, the fourth grade,  she had to come- for me to even stay in school she had to come to school and like basically chaperone me for the rest of the school year.
You know what I'm saying?
Like real laugh like you know what I'm saying she had to chaperone me like I was just- I was a bad  ch- I never- me and school ain't never get along.
Nah.
Nah my sister she actually was good in school, and my little sister now like she been- so she been- she's about to be in twelfth grade next year, she in eleventh grade this year,  she done got honor roll since  kindergarten.
Like she's been doing her thing, and my sister she was good in school, you know what I'm saying.
I was just the problem child.
I don't know.
I don't know, I just- I don't know.
I just- all-  I just be wanting- I always- I'm still like that in ways like I just always wanted to just do what I wanna do like I'm-  Nobody tell me what to do.
You know what I'm saying, like that's why I can't work for-  I can't work for nobody and do that cause it's just like,  I can't nobody t- I can't have nobody telling me what to do.
It bothers me.
I have to be my own person.
I think that's why me and my wife bump heads sometimes too.
Yeah she don't understand that like, don't try like- I feel like sometimes she try to son me like, don't son me, like don't do that.
Son me.
Yeah.
Like don't son me, don't try to son me, like don't tell me what to do.
Talk to me, you know what I'm saying.
Like we can  like  I think you should do this and do it like- okay.
Don't talk at me, like talk to me.
I don't like when people talk at me.
At Kong's.
Down H Street.
I was just like-  I was just- I just had went through like a crazy little situation, you know what I'm saying.
And my sister was just like, come on granddad let's just go out, you know what I'm saying.
Just have some drinks and just chill, you know what I'm saying.
So I'm like,  aight that's cool.
And she was down there with her friends, she kept looking at me, she faking like she wasn't looking and she kept looking at me you know what I'm saying.
So I'm like, aight man let me see what's up  And it was just like,  from the first day I seen her though like from that first night I met her,  she was shaking her booty on me all night,  from then,  I ain't went one day I ain't seen her or talked to her since then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause the first day that I- the next day, she called me the next day after we met.
Like she called me.
Like,  I was like, dang.
Like,  you know what I'm saying like, when I went out that night it was- like she wasn't even the only female that I met that night.
But it was just like,  she called me, and it was just like, nah nigga.
You gonna mess with me, and I was like, nah you gonna mess with me.
You know what I'm saying, she had a man and all that though.
Yeah.
She had a man.
Nah she had a dude like- nah she had a dude, and I told her like,  I just told her straight up like, man you gotta drop that-  that, uh, zero and get you a hero.
You know what I'm saying?
I had to go- I had to go old pimp daddy mode on her and shit, ay yeah I'm the hero.
She had her a zero.
Like what,  a week or something I think?
A week or so?
Yeah, you know what I'm saying  fast.
Yeah.
We met her at, um,  what was that babe?
What was that, Smokey Bo- what was that, Smokey Bones But you- I can s- I can't get- Yeah Smokey Bones, me and my cousin met her at Smokey Bones.
We had some drinks at the bar.
I don't remember if we ate or not, did we get anything to eat?
Excuse me I got- getting over a little cold.
God forgive me.
But um,  yeah I think we had a uh,  I think we ate.
But yeah we met at Smokey Bones.
And then I think the next date after that was the-  I think it w- was it the iPic?
Yeah it was the iPic, yeah  the .
The iPic the movie theater.
Yeah we went off the late night though, we ain't even get to eat.
Like that was crazy we ain't even get to eat nothing or none of that shit  for real.
Like that was crazy, I was mad.
I was mad as a motherfucker.
The rost romantic thing that I've done for her?
Um,  shit, uh, romantic,  what's the romantic-  I don't- I done did a couple of romantic things.
Um,  I think- I think-  See well I can't- she done did that.
Shit,  she did that.
Um- Well nah I got her- nah like w- one, you know what I'm saying, one- what was it, Valentine's Day last year?
Or the year before last?
You know what I'm saying like,  I got up, made her some breakfast all that, you know what I'm saying, made her stand in the little room, you know what I'm saying, she came out,  had all her little gifts and stuff on the bed for her and stuff with some teddy bears and stuff like that.
No it wasn't teddy bears it was balloons.
Had balloons, you know what I'm saying, then I h- it was a lot of balloons though.
You know what I'm saying, and her gifts in the bags and stuff like that.
I think that was romantic.
Uh, Valentine's Day,  we got that room  with that jacuzzi, she had the roses and  we had-  oh man we had motherfucking uh-  we had  candle wax everywhere that day.
She was trying to be sexy and shit we-  We was nervous as a motherfucker the next morning  thinking we about to pay for that motherfucking carpet.
For real.
That- it was fun though, it was nice.
It was real nice.
It was nice.
Yeah it was nice, yeah I remember that.
I was in the jacuzzi, Big Willie style,  you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, sipping on my Patron.
No it was a good time though.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's- yeah but tequila, I'm a tequila man, you know what I'm saying.
I had- I don't know the name of it but it's a new one I just taste, it got the little-  it's like a little  s- like a rectangle bottle.
With  like a little metal top it's called Don something.
But it's a s-  smooth tequila.
I like it.
Ooh excuse me.
Not Don Julio.
Don Julio in that round bottle.
This in like a rectangle bottle.
And it got a little metal top like-  If you watch the Breakfast Club they got the bottle in the back of they joint now the whole time.
It's called Don something, Don  something, something.
You gotta look for it, it's a nice smooth tequila.
I'm a tequila man I can't do nothing but tequila.
I can drink Cognac now, at first I couldn't drink Cognac it used to make me go to sleep instantly.
But now I can drink Cognac.
Vodka, I can't do vodka.
Um,  I don't know, it's like ever since I started drinking tequila, when I drink vodka it just don't sit right with me like I don't wake up the next morning feeling good off the vodka.
Like it don't do it for me.
And I don't go to sleep now off the, uh, off the Cognac.
Like I don't do the Cognac, I don't s- I used to go to sleep off Cognac.
Now I can drink a Cognac.
And I can mix the tequila and the Cognac.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean I could get to drinking like Patron, and then put the 'tron down to pick up the Henny and be good.
And be good.
Nah the- I- I don't do the- I don't think I could do the vodka like that but I think the- the tequila I could do it like I be fucking with the tequila and the v- and the, uh- and the Cognac.
Yeah, and it be having me feeling good.
I drink like one and the other, like I don't- I ain't   Nah, nah.
I been thinking about trying that though.
I been thinking about trying that.
Get me some lime juice.
Dump a little pinch of Henny.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause I'm still gonna have my tequila.
Nothing.
I drink Cognac straight.
Yeah I drink Cognac straight.
I think it could be a nice blend for me though.
You know what I'm saying?
I think it could be a nice blend for me.
Yeah I think- I'm'a try that, I might do that- I might do that next weekend.
I might do that next weekend.
You know what I'm saying.
And you don't want another shot of, uh, tequila?
You sure?
Aight  Um, yeah I- me and-  I moved out of my mom house at  it was either nineteen or twent- I was nineteen or twenty.
I was nineteen or twenty when I moved out of mom house.
Nah like I told you like we like-  cause like,  f- before my little sister came,  my mom,  she always was working, so it was just like me and my older sister, it was just like, man we was out here.
Like, we just been out here.
We just been doing the way we do, you know what I'm saying.
Sh- we had a good mother that- you know what I'm saying, that provided for us, looked out for us, you know what I'm saying, s- the most that she could.
But, uh, it was just like  traditions and stuff, nah ain't no traditions.
Like, the best tradition that we'd get, we get some carry out and eat at the same table.
Like- What you mean?
Oh the favorite place to get my food?
Oh, the carry out.
Chicken wings and fries, we had chicken wings and french fries.
Yeah, George's, Lennie's,  George's and Lennie's.
But Lennie's- when I was younger,  I wasn't really hip to Lennie's, so mama duke's and 'em used to always- cause they don't deliver.
So they used to always get some that delivered so it was George's, when I got older though  I seen that Lennie's was the shit, like Lennie's had that shit for us.
Um, I used to get  chicken cheese steaks and seasoned fries, or either chicken wings or french fries.
Mumbo sauce, yeah, mumbo sauce.
As I got older though I start- I started getting everything on the side though.
As I got older yeah, as I got older I start putting everything-  Yeah.
But nah if I get fried rice now- this the thing, you gotta- You gotta go to Jerry's.
The Jerry's off of  Eastern Avenue   in Seat Pleasant Man get you five wings with fried rice  no vegetables  add egg  hot sauce and mumbo sauce on everything, man that shit bomb as a motherfucker.
I ain't  At Jerry's yes at Jerry's.
Yup Jerry's right down Eastern Avenue, right off Eastern Avenue.
I drove all way over there the other day just to get that.
That's Northeast, yeah that's Northeast.
That's Northeast.
Go get that Jerry's I'm trying to tell you.
Five wings with fried rice.
I don't get no vegetables, add egg in my r- uh, fried rice.
Hot sauce-  Aight get your vegetables then.
Add egg.
If you wanna do it big dog style  get some chicken fried rice.
You know what I'm saying.
But you can do it little and just add egg, and just add egg.
And get hot sauce and mumbo sauce on everything.
And make sure they put your soy sauce in the bag.
Yeah.
Nah it's best on everything.
You doing it right, you gotta get hot sauce and mumbo sauce on the chicken and fried rice.
Yeah.
That shit is bomb.
On everything.
On everything that shit good.
Yeah.
Repeat what you say again.
Yeah.
Hot sauce and mumbo sauce on everything, yeah.
And depending on what carry out you go to, you gotta tell them to cook your chicken soft cause some of them cook the chicken too hard.
It mess up the experience.
Cause you gotta understand every cook out-  every- I said cook out, every carry out chicken already pre-cooked.
Don't let them tell you that they going there cooking it fresh in the back, no they not doing that, it's already pre-cooked.
They start cooking that shit early in the morning.
You know what I'm saying, yeah.
Nah, it's same thing.
Except for, you sitting down and you can't at restaura- Chinese restaurant you sitting down, carry out you gotta get your shit and go.
But they got some carry outs like that, they got some carry outs like that like it's Mainland.
They got Mainland over there  off of uh-  off of MLK.
Off of MLK, Mainland.
Yeah.
You can sit down and dine in there and eat.
You can sit down at Mainland and eat.
Most time, yeah most time- Yeah.
I grew up in Seat Pleasant too.
Yeah Jerry's is right there, Seat Pleasant- Yeah, that's- Jerry's is right there.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  hanging out,  playing basketball, football.
I love sports.
I love fucking sports, like I love sports.
To this day I love sports.
I wanted to go to the league for a long time, like that was my dream.
Until the streets just got a hold of me and I just gave 'em up.
Football and basket- I love all sports but football and basketball are my favorite.
Football is the number one.
The Redskins.
Miami Heat.
Yes.
And I like the, uh, I like the Boston Red Sox, I like the Miami Hurricanes, that's my foot- college football team.
I don't really have a college basketball team, I like Georgetown, I um, my favorite base- I already said Rex Sox.
My favorite uh, hockey, we just lost, the Capitals, that's my favorite team.
Yeah, we do that every year though.
It happen every year, it happens every f- I know it's frustrating it's very frustrating.
I understand how Wizards fan- fans feel.
They do that every year.
Like we're always up, like we're always up.
Nah I wasn't expecting that from the Capitals.
I wasn't expecting that.
They- that's they MO.
That's they MO.
Like yeah they- that's they MO.
We had a best tea- we had a best- same thing with the Nets though.
And I ain't a Nets fan.
Same thing with the Nets.
They dominate during the regular season and shit and then after the playoffs start and then they on some whole other shit.
But I just- that's just-  And same thing with the Redskins, I love them to death, but it's just a- it's a DC thing.
You know what I'm saying.
But the Skins, we gonna be ready this year though, the Skins we on that ass.
We on that ass.
We gonna be the first team to win this division back to back in some years.
Scott.
Scott making us better.
Scott McCloughan.
That's our general manager, yeah he- he- he's the one- he's putting a print on the team, he's building actual team like,  instead of going after the  big time names and shit like that like he going after the football players.
Like he going after actual football players, niggas that really got good character and know how to ball.
They not looking for the recognition all that, they just wanna play ball, they love playing ball.
That's how you build a championship team.
And in the trenches,  he getting that D line, that O line,  and that secondary together.
Skins gonna be ready.
And Captain Kirk.
Captain Kirk gonna do his shit, watch.
Even though- I know so.
Captain Kirk gonna do his shit.
Captain Kirk gonna do his shit.
Whatchu- you must be a Cowboys fan or something.
Who?
Or Giants?
Philly?
Oh you not a football fan you just a Redskins not believer- you just not a believer.
Oh yeah hell yeah football is- is- is the- the shit in the South.
So basketball, who are your basketball teams?
Yeah, motherfuckers ain't even make the playoffs  Ah shit.
She a Golden State fan, my wife a Golden State fan.
I'm a Miami fan.
Shit kind of shaky for us right now.
You don't like Cleveland?
I don't like Cleveland.
I used to be a LeBron fan, I ain't gonna lie.
I was.
Course, yes.
Nah.
I still respect his game.
But I don't respect him though.
But I said that before like- and this my thing I told people this like,  when he came with us I told 'em like,  I don't respect him as a person like, I respect his game, he with us.
So like, yeah I'm'a root for him and shit like you- you mobbing for us.
But like, I told everybody, like,  LeBron don't got no loyalty to nobody.
And that's not- nothing wrong with that.
End of the day- Cause-  cause you gotta think about this like if you go deeper than like, you go deeper than the basketball stuff, you know what I'm say- I'm about to get a little deep on you, you know what I'm saying.
At the end of the day,  these motherfuckers are-  sports is the ultimate modern day fucking slavery.
But  people don't look at it like that cause it's like, alright you get paid.
You get paid mi- nah, cause you get paid millions of dollars, see it's not slavery if you getting paid millions of dollars for it.
That's true.
You know what I'm saying.
That is true.
You know what I'm saying.
But  think about this though-  Alright if you get a young boy,  that's born with all these- all these- you know what I'm saying, gifts from God.
You know what I'm saying.
All these gifts from God,  and  I'm  uh-  I'm poor, I'm poor as hell.
Me and my mother were living from pillar to post or whatever, you know what I'm saying.
So,  these motherfuckers come and tell me,  alright look,  I'm'a give you  a million dollars,  just do this.
Entertain these people.
You know what I'm saying, I'll give a million dollars just entertain these people.
And  I ain't got nothing wrong with that, and I'm- I don't got nothing wrong with that cause like, it's slim, you getting a million dollars entertain these people.
But at the same time-  and I contradicted myself what I just say, I do respect the person that LeBron is, cause it's just like at the end of the day,  he do his shit.
He do his shit, he's about to be the first- like basically the first active  billionaire athlete.
You understand that like, I mean still in the game, like playing right now.
In the prime of his career.
Probably already got a fucking billion dollars, you know what I'm saying.
Like- Exactly, you know what I'm saying, so he changed th- he changed the game you know what I'm saying, so I respect that.
But it's just like,  as a fan,  it's no- there's- it's no loyalty.
But when you get deep into the whole situation,  man these dudes- especially in football.
Like, I don't even want my little ones playing football no more cause it's just like,  it's too much risk.
It's too much risk.
And it's the least amount of reward, like  if- I don't know if you know like, basket- football is the- the  like the only  sport that you don't get guaranteed money.
You gotta put in your contract like,  say you sign you a hundred million dollar contract  and it's gonna be like,  but forty million is guaranteed.
You know what I'm saying, when you sign a contract in basketball for a hundred million dollars, you getting that.
Like,  they give you- you gotta get that- In basketball?
Except for the taxes.
Except for the taxes.
You don't never hear nobody- y- l- think about this.
You never hear a basketball contract where they say,  a hundred million dollars, Only thirty-three guaranteed.
Nah.
It's always,  a hundred million dollars over  this and that amount of years.
You know what I'm saying.
With a player option, the player option- all that means is I can't opt out my contract.
And when I opt out, whoever I go to next,  they gotta pick up my contract.
You know what I'm saying so that's why you see a lot of players like- Melo woulda been got traded plenty of times in his career.
But every time Melo go somewhere and play  he got a max  contract, they always give him a max bill.
So when he don't play- I don't know if he got the no trade clause right now, in his contract in the last deal that he did, But the thing about Melo, like the thing about him, like no matter where he go play, he not a franchise player.
He not a franchise player, like  everybody knows that shit about Melo now, at first they used to think- They- no they thought he was cause he got talent, he got the talent  but he not no franchise player.
He can't-  he can't go to a team and be that number one guy and carry that team to a championship.
And-  and at the end of the day,  it's still to be seen.
I don't even believe LeBron can do that.
LeBron can't do that.
Like people don't realize that like  LeBron,  he can take your team to the finals every year,  but he can't seal the deal without D.
Wade.
If he do it this year then I'm wrong.
But I don't see him doing it.
You know what I'm saying.
I don't see him doing it.
I don't see him doing it.
Yeah.
But only thing about that though, that's gonna light a fire under Bron Bron ass.
That's gonna light a fire under his ass.
You heard what he said?
You heard what LeBron said?
He said- The interview- like the recent joint that he s- did when they aks him about- they was aksing him about Steph Curry like what do you think about him he was like, I'm taking that from well deserved whatever, you going by player to player whatever, you know what I'm saying.
But  if we talking about most valuable,  then that's another story.
Like  that one right- that showed him right there like he feel slighted.
Come on Steph that's disrespectful.
And that's the thing, he w- yes, he finished third in the MVP voting, Kawhi Leonard finished second.
But the thing about this,  slim, y'all sitting here telling me this dude was unanimous, that means nobody- how you think LeBron-  nobody voted for me.
Nobody- Not even just nobody in history ever did that, but  nobody voted for me.
I'm looking at LeBron  yeah, like  if you look at Steph Curry like that's some history making shit but look at LeBron here.
Nobody fucking voted for me for MVP?
Oh hell to the no no.
He about to cook shit.
Like  he gonna real life cook shit.
I'm trying to tell you like- I don't think they gonna win, nah I don't think Golden State gonna lose.
But I think Bron gonna come for- he coming for that ass.
It's gonna be a - it's gonna be a tougher series.
I think this joint just might go six or seven.
I don't think it's gonna be as sweet as everybody think for Golden State just because of Bron Bron got his- he got his back up now, Kyrie,  Kevin Love, they ready to ball you know what I'm saying.
And he on a mission.
Slim is on a mission.
He already know.
You gotta think about it, he ain't played ever s- We ain't seen LeBron play a game since Steph Curry got his MVP award.
I guarantee you when they play us-  cause we not gonna lose to Toronto.
When they play us that first game  already know slim gonna come out there on a mission.
I know it.
He h- he- man LeBron,  he emotional, he a sensitive ass nigga like, he emotional as shit.
That bothered him.
He couldn't even hide it on camera.
Most- the average nigga woulda hid it low, yeah I'm happy for him this and that or whatever, and  your way.
He couldn't hide it on camera he had to say his last little- He had to, he had no choice, it w- it- Man he a emotional ass nigga, I'm trying to tell you.
He gonna come for Steph ass.
He coming for your man babe.
What does what mean?
That mean he got all the MVP votes, like Everybody voted for- for Steph Curry.
First place.
Everybody.
Unanimous.
No they voted for- they voted- nobody- You can get like- yeah you can get different like runner up and all that.
Nobody gon- nah.
Nope.
Just him.
Just him.
Ah.
Mm.
I don't even understand why this- I don't mean to be cut you- I don't even know why this series is going this long, I don't see why it's going this long.
I think Whiteside- I think it threw us off When Whiteside went out, yeah.
I think that threw us off.
Cause you gotta think about it- think about w- how we play,  now that Whiteside gone, we playing Luol Deng at the five.
We playing total small ball.
That's not the Heat.
Exactly, that's not the Heat.
We had to  adjust to that.
So,  that game that we lost,  we was just trying to adjust and get into that like, that small ball thing playing without Whiteside.
We had Whiteside this whole year.
That was our game.
You know what I'm saying.
That- that- that- that- that pick and roll with Whiteside and Wade, like, that was one of our main things so like t- the- we don't got that rim protection no more,  we don't got them blocked shots no more, so like we had to adjust the plan-  Nothing.
I told you that- we supposed to have got- we supposed to have- look, we supposed to have won the game before that one, and this one when we came back home it was supposed to be over.
But like I said,  that last one in Toronto it threw us off when we ain't had Whiteside, we had to adjust to it.
And watch, you gonna see it this next game.
We gonna beat 'em.
Nah I ain't worried about game seven.
We got Dwayne Wade, let me explain something to you, man.
Let me explain this to you I'm'a look you in your eyes.
We got Dwayne Wade, the third best shooting guard in NBA history, behind Kobe Bryant and Michael Jordan.
Do you really believe that he's gonna lose a game seven to Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan?
No he will not.
I promise you that.
He will not lose to Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan.
He might lose to LeBron,  he ain't gonna lose to them.
Nah they not gonna sweep us.
They not- they gonna sweep us.
They not gonna sweep us.
Uh-huh.
Dwayne got too much pride for that.
They might do it in six, they could do it in six.
They might even do it in five.
If Whiteside- no, if Whiteside- it's- if Whiteside don't come back, Then they probably can do it in five.
But we not gonna get swept.
Dwayne Wade ain't going like that.
He ain't going like that.
He not going like that.
What- Next season?
No and that's the thing, everybody basically- except for fucking Dra- uh, Dragic is a fucking free agent on our roster.
So that's a good thing but at the same time it's- it's a bad thing but it's a good thing too though, because you gotta think about this though.
Everybody keep saying,  where's Kevin Durant going?
Where's KD going?
Who don't wanna come play in South Beach baby?
Exactly, Pat makes it happen.
So-  and then, the year after that  Westbrook about to free- be a free agent, so this'll be the perfect- No lis- listen to me.
This'll be the perfect- this is the perfect time for us to have our roster the way that it is and I think Pat Riley did that on purpose.
He's a mad scientist, I'm trying to tell you.
N- he might go to Lakers.
Cause he from- cause he from Cali.
He from Cali.
He might go to the Lakers.
But at the same time, this my thing though, but this my thing though, the Lakers are not who they- you don't- you ain't see that?
Everybody not running to go to Lakers no more.
Everybody not pressed to go to LA no more.
Everybody names are bigger- like you gotta think about it, dudes names with social media, the way that social media is now,  dudes names is bigger than these teams now.
Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, you don't think they name bigger than Oklahoma City Thunder?
No.
No.
No.
How is it- Hold on, how Kevin Durant- What?
Are you serious?
Kevin- Russell Westbrook is a beast.
He always been a beast.
Honestly believe that them two together are holding each other career back.
He's a beast.
No, let me tell you- let me tell you- no like- no- no can work though, Westbrook wasn't in the shadows, Kevin Durant was just the best offensive player in the game.
But so you- but this my thing though.
You can't say-  Hold on but you can't say- you can't say Russell Westbrook  was in the shadows.
That's just like saying,  oh when LeBron James came to Miami Dwayne Wade was in the shadows.
No.
You can't- nah.
That's not.
You can't do that.
Cause look, this the thing about this.
Russell Westbrook, even before KD got hurt,  before KD got hurt,  Russell Westbrook was still,  uh, looked at upon as one of the top  five, top ten players in the NBA, before KD got hurt.
To- He bee- But this my thing, I don't- I feel like Russell Westbrook is where  he's been- like,  for the- I'm'a say the last five years  Russell Westbrook has been one of the top five players in the NBA.
And then they had- and that was before- and that was before Kevin Durant got his knee- his foot injury.
He was still a top five player.
And the time that Kevin Durant- Name- hold on,  name me five players that was better that Wussell Westbrook the year that KD won his MVP.
I can name all of 'em for you.
The year that Kevin Durant won his MVP, You had LeBron, you had KD,  you had James Harden,  who else?
Exactly.
You only got- only- since- since-  Like in the last five years only dudes  that you-  And now you got Kawhi Leonard in that conversation.
K- Kawhi Leonard-  Kawhi Leonard, LeBron James,  Russell Westbrook,  Kevin Durant,  and James Harden, that's your top five players in the NBA today.
Oh no- it's Steph Curry I forget- Steph Curry now.
But you gotta remember Steph Curry wasn't doing that when J- Kevin Durant won the MVP.
Steph Curry just started doing this last year.
And you gotta remember that.
It's only been going on for two years for Steph.
Before that, Steph was a- was- Steph who?
People was even thinking with-  it- it was a point when niggas didn't even think he was gonna stay in the- they ain't know if he was gonna stay in the league.
Exactly that.
Them - them ankles, you know what I'm saying.
So like,  he wasn't- you can't pit Westbrook- you can't pit him in that category, so it was like- it was James Harden  Kawhi Leonard,  and- and that- no back then Kawhi Leonard wasn't even in the discussion.
It was-  it was still- but-  They was giving him the recognition but he wasn't deserving it.
No.
No uh, it was- it was- it was Derrick Rose.
It was- they was still talking about Derrick Rose.
But Derrick Rose-  He kept on getting hurt and- But they was like, oh he gonna come back and be the same person but he never came back to be the same person.
But at the time they were still talking of him being in like that top five.
But Jimmy Butler better than him, man.
Yeah Jimmy Butler's better than him now.
Um,  cause  this the thing about it, that's why- that what he goes- that what goes as like I'm saying about the money.
If this was the NFL  they woulda been got rid of Derrick Rose.
Derrick Rose woulda been gone.
But, who gonna give him that money though?
Who gonna give Derrick Rose that type of money that Derrick Rose make?
So that's why they can't do nothing with him.
They can't do nothing with Derrick Rose.
Um, I don't know.
I don't know when Rose-  I don't know when Rose, uh-  Thank you babe.
I don't know when Rose will get free agency.
Yeah I told you she be trying to son me.
This fine, but it's the other stuff I don't like.
But yeah she, uh, I mean, uh, he-  he did- he did his, uh-  he did his thing, Derrick Rose was doing his numbers.
He just couldn't get past LeBron.
He just couldn't get past LeBron and after them knee injuries  he just couldn't- he couldn't do it no more.
The greatest player of all times in my opinion.
Basketball player.
Basketball player, the greatest player of all times?
Um,  I gotta go with  I gotta go with Oscar Robertson.
I gotta go with Oscar Robertson.
Mike-  I give you- Mike-  Six rings, six MVP's, like I give you that.
You know what I'm saying, you- you revolutionized the game, I give you that like-  Off the court- like he did- but it's- it's a f- he got the Floyd Mayweather effect like,  he was bigger than basketball like, Michael Jordan was bigger than basketball, you know what I'm saying.
But if you just look at it- you just like man, a dude on the court, his game like, who you think the best player of all times like,  Oscar Robertson.
How could you not say a dude that averaged a triple double in one season not the best player  of all times?
That's averaging a triple double in one season.
That's a whole season going through getting triple doubles.
You will never see that again.
You ain't gonna see it before him, you ain't see it after him, like  can't give it to nobody else but him.
But  the totality of basketball and just like revolutionizing and all that,  Mike hands down.
You know what I'm saying, Mike he did it.
But- The best player in the last five years?
LeBron James.
LeBron James.
You can't take nothing from him, you can't-  you can't- you can't- you can't take that from him like,  he been- the last five years,  LeBron James been in every finals.
Whether it was with  Miami, Cleveland, w- like, he been in every finals.
Win or lose,  he's been in every finals the last five years.
When LeBron James  left Cleveland,  Cleveland- the first time Cleveland went from  the best team in the Eastern conference to the worst team in the Eastern conference.
That f- very same year that LeBron came with us,  we went to the finals.
The first year that L- The first team- the first year that LeBron left us and came back to Cleveland, he went to the- he- we missed the playoffs and he went to the finals.
You can't take that from him.
You know what I'm saying like, he not a good closer  but  the nigga- he a bad- nigga's a bad man.
Like you can't take nothing from him, he a bad man.
Yeah.
He a bad man.
Yeah he a bad man.
You can't take nothing from him.
All day.
Yeah that's my- Alright let me aks you this though let me aks you this, can I aks you a question?
Alright so uh, who you think is the best two way player in the NBA?
Who you think the best two way player in the NBA is?
I got another que- I got the best two way player and the best all around player.
Yes.
Klay.
I'm going with Klay.
Klay.
I give it to Klay.
I think Klay I think Klay is the best two way player in the NBA.
You- you right, also you know your- I just wanted to see if you knew your shit, you know your shit.
And you gon- and I probably shock you with this.
I'm not gonna give it to Bron Bron.
Your passing, your- Yeah all that.
I think Draymond Green.
I think Draymond Green is the best all around player in the NBA.
RD-NAME-2 say what- Listen to what she about to say.
Listen to w- hey.
Hey listen to what she about to say.
What you about to say?
I told her that.
They- I t-  I just told her that shit the other night, she wasn't trying to hea- I told her- I said look, I'm not taking nothing away from Stephen Curry, but I'm telling you,  that they can ball out without Stephen Curry.
They would be a total different team without Draymond Green.
I was just- So baby- babe somebody else telling you the same thing you can listen to them.
Like- You- I agree, but what I'm saying is they can go out there and get you- they can go out there and score a hundred and twenty five points with- without- They can't win without Draymond Green.
Yes.
Yes they can.
They can't do that without Klay.
Now I don't know, hold on I don't know.
They needed Klay.
Hold on now I don't know about Portland, cause Portland got the right recipe for them.
I don't know if they ever gonna beat Portland without Steph.
Steph had to come back to beat Portland.
Steph had to come back to beat Port- But let me tell you why.
Damian Lillard is a bad motherfucker.
He's a bad- man, he's a bad motherfucker.
People don't understand,  that these niggas lost  ev- they whole- basically they whole roster last year, yes.
They was talking about these niggas being a lottery pick.
He carried that motherfucking team by hisself.
CJ McCollum came up and did his thing, but this nigga carried that motherfucking team by hisself.
Man, D Lill that's a bad motherfucker, D Lill a bad motherfucker.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And my man really got bars.
My man really can rap.
Cause he is like, you gotta understand the dimensions- like you gotta understand the dimensions of a basketball team like, Stephen Curry,  he got-  he got the shooting ability and all that or whatever, you know what I'm saying.
But it's just like,  when you got a dude on your team like say- alright, say y'all all females, right.
Say y'all go out right, and y'all all women.
You know what I'm saying.
And it's just a bunch of niggas like there whatever, you know what I'm saying.
You gonna feel a little more comfortable with- if you got some men with you too.
I'm- hold on, let me explain, I'm telling .
It's the- it's the-  it's the- what he bring- it's what he bring to the table.
He's on the court- aight so this the thing.
When niggas-  And for a long time niggas looked at Golden State as soft.
They was soft as shit like they- even when they had Klay Thompson and Steph,  they looked at them as soft as shit.
Skilled but soft.
When Draymond Green came, niggas had to respect them.
And he made you- you respect- you gonna respect us.
I'm gonna talk my shit,  I'm'a scream on these niggas, I'm'a get everybody in line,  where you got- hold on, look.
Like say- Exactly.
Say like- Gonna say nothing like that, exactly.
He bring the- he the heart and soul of that team, like he gonna  say what's- what's scared to be s- what- what need to be said.
You know what I'm saying?
And that's the superstars or whatever like if you slacking and you off I'm'a say something, if I'm slacking off say something to me.
Yeah.
Yes.
That's why he the heart and soul of they team.
No, he's not like the father.
He's just the vocal one, he's just the vocal- He's the vocal one.
He just the vocal one in the sa- in the- in the uh- you know what I'm saying, on the team.
Every team got that though.
Every great team need that.
Every great team need that.
D Wade.
Hell yeah.
You don't see D Wade go- yeah.
Hell yeah.
Hell yeah.
You better remember even when- when Bron Bron played for us D Wade used to be getting his ass.
Hell yeah.
D Wade don't play no games.
D Wade don't play no games, he gonna let you know.
I been- I been this, I've done this.
You know what I'm saying?
Nah.
Nah I think Pau.
Pau.
No not Pau.
I meant uh, Joakim Noah.
I said Pau.
Joakim Noah, Joakim Noah's they guy.
Joakim Noah's they guy.
He they- he they- he that voice.
He they voice.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know what they gonna do.
I don't know what they gonna do with him.
But Jimmy Butler  is definitely-  he definitely got game.
Jimmy Butler definitely got game.
Jimmy Butler got game.
You know what I'm saying.
He ball- yeah exactly, he definitely got heart.
He definitely got game.
That's why I started fucking with D Wade, cause like that year that all the niggas came out, it was like,  everybody was talking about Bron and Melo  Bron and Melo, Bron and Melo this this and that.
And D Wade just came out that joint- Nah.
Two-thousand- oh three.
I'm talking about when they- when they got drafted.
Yeah I'm talking about when they got drafted.
When they all came out that year, you know what I'm saying, everybody was talking about Bron and Melo this and that, woo woo woo, you know what I'm saying.
Like D Wade just came in,  and he just did his business as usual, you know what I'm saying,  and he was the best one out of all of 'em.
When they first came into the league- People don't remember that.
When they first came into the league,  D Wade was the best player out of all them.
You know what I'm saying  He was the first one to get his ring,  he carried Miami to the championship.
Yeah, he had Shaq.
Who on our team?
We had   old ass fucking- we had  Antoine fucking Walker, old ass Gary Payton, old ass Shaq,  fucking James Posey.
Fucking, uh,  who else we had on that team?
Motherfucking we had Jason Williams,  motherfucking, um, Udonis Haslem was still on that team.
Motherfucking who else?
Who D- UD?
Nah Udonis Haslem been at Miami his whole career.
Yeah, nah, he ain't been nowhere.
Nah UD been there the whole time, him and D Wade been there the whole time.
Who else we had on that team?
Um,  that was it, those was it, those was the runners.
Yeah, those was the runners.
You know what I'm saying, only thing we play-  we only play like-  Cause our rotation was short in that joint like I don't think- I think those are the dudes that we only play.
And oh I forgot about Zo, I'm tripping I forgot about Zo, Alonzo.
Alonzo Mourning.
Yeah Alonzo Mourning, yeah you remember he- after he got his ring- Yeah after Al- after Zo got his ring he rolled out, Zo was gone after he got his ring.
GP was too.
Both of them they left after they got they ring, GP and Lonzo.
But that was it though, that was the squad.
We beat Dallas, I remember that.
We was down.
We was down, we came back and beat they ass.
We was down motherfucking- I think we was down three one and we came back.
No,  we was down,  three two.
We was down three two, and we came back and we uh-  No.
We was down two.
No, we was down  two one.
We was down two one, cause we beat 'em in six, we was down two one and we came back and beat 'em three straight.
Yup.
Dwayne Wade had one of the highest scoring averages in finals history that year.
Only other people that scored more than that in a winning effort  I think was Wilt Chamberlain and, uh,  and Michael Jordan.
No,  I think it was just Wilt Chamberlain.
Cause it was Jordan-  it was  Iverson, Jordan, D Wade, and Wilt Chamberlain, but Iverson had lost.
But I think it was only Chamberlain that averaged more.
I think he averaged like a fraction more than Jordan.
I gotta look that up, it's-  it's in that   It's them four.
I don't know the order but that four.
But they did they shit.
He did his shit.
Like he was like-  That shit made me fall in love with D Wade, I th- that's when I was like, man I love the fucking Heat like,  this- at first I likeded the Heat,  but that's what made me- was like, man I love these- I- I can't answer that I'm doing my interview.
You know what I'm saying, that's what made me like, I love the fucking Heat and like-  Don't make me get on the Redskins, we'll be talking for two more hours.
Aight, aight.
I love them- we'll just put it like this, I love them with a passion.
I love them with a passion like, I got- oh where my picture at?
Like, you know what I'm saying, where my picture at babe?
Like we- we been doing this since the baby you know what I'm saying like, I been like- the Redskins- I was born a Redskins fan.
Nah, only team that- only hometown teams I like is the uh, the Redskins and the Caps.
Boston, yeah Red Sox, yeah.
I like the Red Sox.
Aight.
Exactly, we could talk about- aight.
Aight.
Nah what I mean by that it was just like we- like, my- like I said my mother-  my mother was a great mother like, don't make it- I ain't- like, my mother provided for us she did for us and all that or whatever but it's just like, when you- like, when you got a single mother  and she working  y'all- you out there, you know what I'm saying.
Like, it ain't no like, oh  mom here to tell you that or mom here to tell you do that, she working you know what I'm saying.
She trying- she a single mother.
With two kids.
She gotta do her shit you know what I'm saying, so it's like,  we just  adjus- We just was in the streets like we just had fun, you know what I'm saying.
It was just like,  we just was in the streets, the streets got us.
Well got me.
My sister she real, she more- you know what I'm saying, she be chilling or whatever you know what I'm saying, but like it got me more so than her.
Um,    I ain't gonna say that I- I- I been out and I feel like oh,  if I do this then I'm gonna die.
Like, whenever I-  I always- you know what I'm saying just cause- j- like, knowing what it is, like I'm not a person that just like,  I-  I'm oblivious to what- you know what I'm saying like I'm- I ain't know what was going on to all this or whatever like, I knew any time that I- whatever I do like I know that it could go south.
You know what I'm saying.
I take that with me, you know what I'm saying, I know that.
But  it wasn't never- like, I never  woke up and had the mindset was like,  dang like, what I'm doing, I'm about to die.
Like,  nah I never had that mentality like, cause I couldn't never like-  Then that just mean like,  I'm scared.
And I wasn't scared, like I wasn't scared.
I w- I was enjoying like, what I was doing was fun to me.
You know what I'm saying like, just hanging out with my friends, doing anything,  just  doing whatever like we wanted to do, like that was fun to me.
You know what I'm saying.
The women liked it, you know what I'm saying.
Everybody did, you wasn't with us, you respect us so it was just like- And if you ain't respect us then you ain't like us, so we'd fight you then this like- that's gonna make people like us even more.
So it just like-  At the time when you young,  that's exciting to you.
So you ain't thinking like, oh it's scary like this gonna happen whatever, you know what I'm saying, like- Then being shot at and everything.
but it's just like,  at the time you like, fuck like,  you shook up like, damn what the fuck just happened, whatever.
But then like,  you ignorant.
So,  fucking a hour later you sitting around with your friends laughing about that shit not knowing last night you could have been fucking dead.
You know what I'm saying, but when you young you ain't thinking like that you just thinking like, oh, it's fun.
We just out here we having fun.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Just at the rec, we just at the rec just cool, it's dark you know what I'm saying, like,  people just shooting dice.
Some people right here shooting dice, some people still on the other- Cause it's like two basketball courts where we used to live at, it's the big basketball court that you can run full court,  there was another basketball hood that had four courts on it, it was like two half courts you know what I'm saying.
So that light right there, that,  uh, one right there got the lights on it.
You know what I'm saying.
The joint got the lights on it.
And  this joint over here with the- with the- the full court, it don't got no lights on it.
So that's the court like once everything chilling out and all that you know what I'm saying, it's starting to get dark,  if you ain't really playing ball,  you coming over to the other court.
You know what I'm saying, you shooting your dice, or you messing with the chick or whatever it is you doing or whatever, you sitting on the other court.
And it's like,  at the Kentland r- I don't know if you ever been t- you been to the Kentland rec before?
Like, it's like a big field like on that- like on that park, you know what I'm saying, it's like a big field and then it's like a bridge on that, you know what I'm saying, down on like-  You can walk down that way, you know what I'm saying.
So like,  if you-  you could come this way  and ambush somebody, or you can come like from straight down where the rec at, you know what I'm saying, and look up.
But if you come straight down where the rec at then everybody see you coming down.
You know what I'm saying.
And when it happen,  they came from the bridge side like all the way- they walked like,  from like- I say the bridge from here,  to them trees like, you know what I'm saying, where them trees all the way at back there.
The bridge like way back there.
So you gotta walk from like- Yeah behind the houses where them trees at and stuff like that, the bridge is like there, like the- the basketball courts like where we at.
You know what I'm saying, so you gotta walk all the way around though to get to the bridge and come from that way.
So like when we first heard it, we thought it was just like-  cause we just thought somebody was shooting.
And nobody know that- that we was actually being shot at until like  the spark hit the back of the basketball court.
You know what I'm saying like, one of the joint- like one of the bullets sparked and hit one of the basketball court and once we seen that,  that's when everybody just got low.
But that's when I was like- I was like fucking-  Cause I didn't move to Seat Pleasant til I was like, fifteen.
I was still living around Kentland this time, so I had to be no more than probably like eleven.
I was like eleven years old.
Eleven, twelve years old.
If that.
Like, I know like I moved  in Seat Pleasant at fifteen so,  I had to be probably like, eleven, twelve years old.
Something like that.
You know what I'm saying.
But it was just like,  afterwards like,  that shit wasn't- like, it was funny to us.
Cause ain't nobody get hurt or nothing like that, so it was just like- But if somebody probably woulda got hurt we probably would have had a whole different mindset like, damn son like that shit real.
But when you young, y'all ain't thinking like that.
Like everything is fucking funny and fun to you.
Yeah, that's how you feel like you feel like- not even just you feel like invincible it's just like, you don't feel invincible it's just like, it's fun.
Bad- being bad is fun when you young.
Being negative is fun when you young.
Cause everybody think that it's cool.
Like,  most niggas  come out here, whatever they do, or whatever it is they out here they doing, they doing for women.
You know what I'm saying.
Dudes go get they hair cut for a woman.
Dudes wanna have the best car to do all that for a woman.
Like everything that a man do, is for a woman.
They can say that it's not, but it is.
You know what I'm saying.
So it's just like-  And me personally,  I was like young like, I had the baddest little young joint around the way like,  they used to call her Pocahontas like she was the only little young girl in the- in the hood that had her hair like down her back.
You know what I'm saying.
And at the time,  I ain't know that it was like- I ain't notice it was just niggas hating, cause every time I deal with her  and I talk to her-  Oh, can I take this?
I gotta take this I gotta take this.
Now what were we saying?
Oh but nah yeah it wasn't about feeling invincible.
You f- like nah yeah when you like, when you whoop a nigga ass  for the first time,  then you feel invincible.
You know what I'm saying like, you feel invincible after that, you know what I'm saying, like, that's when you feel invincible when you like- Like, cause you know everybody can sh- anybody can shoot somebody else something like that or whatever but like when you hand to hand and you just whoop a nigga ass,  you feel good all day, like that make you feel invincible.
But like the- the thing about just running around just doing fucked up shit and being bad and doing that,  it was just the fact that  it was cool.
You know what I'm saying,  all the girls liked it, they thought we were so cool for doing it or whatever, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, oh yeah Pocahontas, yeah I had the bad little- I had the baddest little joint out there back in the day, like I was a young dude.
She was like-  I was in, uh- she was like two grades ahead of me, you know what I'm saying, she was like two he- two grades ahead of me, you know what I'm saying.
But like,  she just- I don't know what it was about me.
Even in elementary school, w- I- I remember like, it was just-  Sixth grade,  I had the baddest little joint in there, like I always just had the little bad joints and-  But I never noticed when I was younger  that-  I never noticed that when I was younger  how  dudes be hating, I never knew that.
I never knew that like- I thought it was just like-  they was just like oh- cause it was like they would always find something wrong with my girl.
Like,   oh why you messing with her, this and that, woo woo woo, you know what I'm saying like, why you m-  But me-  me being- you know what I'm saying, always wanna  impress my men and all that,   man I ain't tripping off her, this and that like I went with the girl, I dumped her probably like four times.
Like,  The whole time like-  Now she got three kids by my man and all that now.
But like I broke up with her like four times since like-  as like, growing up.
Because somebody was always like, yeah why you doing this and you doing that, like you dealing with-  But what crazy what it was that  after I would break up with her,  one of my men would always be-  like, get her.
You know what I'm saying like, one of my men are always there I'm like, damn like, I had to catch myself like damn slim,  you let these niggas trick you out your spotlight.
But it was just like at the same time  I don't like skinny girls so she ain't never really do nothing for me like, that's what it was too like, she was skinny like,  she was real skinny.
And I don't like- I ain't never really-  You know what I'm saying, I told my wife when sh- we got together like, you know what I'm saying, you can't get too skinny.
You can aks her, like I told her like I don't-  I feel like I'm  touching a little boy, you too skinny and shit you know what I'm saying like, I need some-  I need some cushion with it.
This my mom, I can call her back.
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
I'm excited.
I'm nervous but I'm excited like- Cause I got- oh I gotta take this.
Oh no rush.
Yeah like yeah this my first little one like I'm- I'm excited, you know what I'm saying, I'm excited.
I just wanna-  I'm just gonna follow the blueprint that I did with my little sister.
I feel like I got a blueprint, like I got something that I know that I wanna strive for and not do like,  I love the way that my little sister is and like I would not mind at all if my daughter was that way.
Minus the little smart mouth, her mother thinking  it's fine, but I don't like that.
Yeah that's my baby.
I was just telling people last night, they was talking about how  I ain't-  I ain't touch my mother feet this and that.
I was telling 'em last night slim y'all are tripping, you understand sl- I used to soak my mother toes and  scrape the crust off her feet all types of shit like, I- I love my ba- that's my baby, you see in my phone it say my baby, that's my baby.
Yeah I love her.
Um, when I came back from Mississippi.
When I came back from Mississippi, cause she sent me- cause I was- like, when she sent me to Mississippi like  I was doing too much.
So, you know what I'm saying, at the time I feel like- I just feel like she was giving up on me.
You know what I'm saying, so like, for a long time when I came back,  I- I w- I was mad at her for a long time, you know what I'm saying, we used to get like- get into it real bad cause I felt like,  this nigga ain't never do shit for me, no nothing, he gonna send this  they don't give a fuck about me.
You gonna send me with this nigga for?
You know what I'm saying.
And when I went to go live with him, he did everything and showed me that what it was like, you know what I'm saying.
She let me come back home but like I told her like, what you send me with that nigga for?
You know what I'm saying like,  that nigga don't really care about me.
So like-  Cause when I- like, this nigga,  my father,  when I was staying with them  and I was ready to go back home or whatever, this was just all some summer type shit.
I had a job and all that.
This nigga gonna tell me-  cause I'm ready to go home, this nigga put me on the bus with a motherfucking- Made me pay for my own ticket at that.
Put me on a motherfucking bus for a day and a half  and made me motherfucking  pay for my own ticket and gave me a bag of cookies.
A pack of fucking cookies.
Dead ass, though, you know what I'm saying, like I don't trip off of it no more or whatever but at the time, that shit fucked me up.
So I'm like, damn slim you- you going like that?
So now he be trying to have a relationship or whatever it's like, you know what I'm saying, and I be cool with him whatever but it's just like I know he see that it ain't what it is.
Like, you did that shit though.
Like you did that, that ain't me.
I'm'a make sure my little one  good like I'm'a make sure they- they- they know, like I never do no big wild shit like that.
You don't like- I'm  at the time like, fifteen.
Fifteen years old you know what I'm saying.
I'm good, I know I'm good.
But as a parent, I don't feel comfortable with putting my fifteen year old child out there like that.
Nah.
You know what I'm saying, s- but mom dukes we was- we- we was real- she was angry- I was angry at her for a long time,  but then it was like,  when I got out on my own that's when I realize like,  that's when I really feel I- I felt like,  yeah this is- this is- that's my baby like she do her shit for me like,  you understand that this shit this woman done did for me like she did so much shit for me like and I just grow to appreciate it, you know what I'm saying.
Like at first, it was like, she doing it cause she got to,  that's my mom.
But now it's just like,  nah slim.
Cause I- I- I learned this like, after you turn eighteen years old,  don't nobody gotta do shit for you.
And I tell everybody, don't nobody gotta do nothing for you so it was like,  don't get mad at somebody for what they not doing for you after you turn eighteen.
What they do do,  appreciate it.
And take it as a blessing.
Yeah, you got different lingos everywhere you go.
That's a- that's a- that's a- that's a- that's a urban culture thing.
Like that's just like- you know what I'm saying, every-  every- you know what I'm saying, every section got they own little lingos whatever but that's just a urban thing like everywhere you go,  you gonna hear different type of languages and stuff like- but that's just like, we unique people.
Like, black people got a unique gene in our body.
They can't take that from us, they try to,  try to beat the shit out of us, but they couldn't do that.
We some special people, so it was just like  yeah, it's just like- yeah, that's- that's everywhere.
You gonna find different lingos.
DC?
Well DC p- DC people like they like to say Mo and Bob.
It's like a word like it's like saying son.
Or- or B, like,  you know what I'm saying, you get somebody's attention just like- it's just- like or-  or homie, or something like that you know what I'm saying, just like Bob.
What's up, Bob.
What's up, homie.
What's up, B.
What's up, whatever, you know what I'm saying.
New York- New York- that's a New York thing, B.
Yeah that's a New York thing.
You never heard B?
For real, you never heard nobody say, what's up, B?
You ain't never heard somebody say B?
Or like, this niggas bugging, B.
For real?
Oh you ain't never seen Paid in Full?
You ain't never seen Paid in Full?
The movie Paid in Full?
Oh shit, B.
You gotta go to New York.
I be using that shit.
Um,  those the two main things and uh, you see- you hear homes.
Homes, Mo,  and uh, and Bob.
And bruh.
But bruh- Bruh's a- yeah, bruh is everywhere.
Maybe cause I was out Landover, I heard us saying that first though before everybody, now you be hearing everybody saying bruh.
I had to change it to Brody, now I call everybody Brody.
Yeah.
That's my joint like, yeah nah joint, that's everywhere though.
I hear that- I hear that everywhere I go.
Like that's my joint.
New Orleans got a joint, a word called roun.
Like that's my roun.
That's like my boy, that's like my man, nah like  my roun like, you know what I'm saying, like I mess with him that's my roun.
Bob?
Mo?
No.
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know I never been a fan of go go music.
Cause I never been a fan of the live performance thing.
Like, that's what it is, I never been a fan of the live performance thing.
It's just like,  it's too much, like when I li- hear something, I wanna hear a nice little beat  to the right level that it's supposed to be on, the right tone and all that like, you know what I'm saying.
I'm not trying to hear  the fucking music over top of the words and shit like, and that's what go go is, it's a live perform- and that's why I don't really do concerts like, the live performance thing don't really get me.
Um, right now my favorite artist is Kevin Gates.
You don't know Kevin Gates?
Kevin Gates is a deep brother, he's a deep brother.
Like he say little shit that people be, you know what I'm saying, like everybody know him for the- being the booty eating dude and kicking the girl in the chest, but he a deep dude, if you listen to his music he a deep dude, like he a deep brother.
He a real deep brother.
He don't do- he don't got no empty bars.
You know what I'm saying, like you hear a lot of dudes rap now about a lot of bullshit.
He don't rap like that, he rap about real shit.
Like he keep that shit real.
Um,  I like Kendrick Lamar because what he bring to the game.
I'm not- uh, I'm not gonna say that I'm a fan, but I like him because what he brings to the game.
Yeah I like what he brings to the game and he spits that real shit.
Like he- he's- he's-  he's- I love anybody that's pro black.
Anybody that's pro black I'm f- I'm with you.
I fuck with you cause I'm pro black, I'm pro pro black.
I ain't anti white.
I'm just pro black.
See my white-  but my wife think that I'm anti white, and I try to explain to her I'm not anti white I'm just pro black.
And I'm not gonna ignore the obvious that they put in front of us.
And she gets that mixed up with me being anti white, I'm not anti white.
I've had white friends in my life before.
I'm not anti white.
I'm not, I didn't- It caught me off guard.
That's what it was.
It caught me off guard.
But I'm not anti white, I have had- I've had white friends before.
I've shooken white man hands before.
I'm not anti white.
I'm just pro black.
And it's just like, dudes- to sit here and say-  and  anybody to sit here and just be like,  I have no type of feelings or no type of energy or anything towards like what our people went through for four hundred years,  I can't say that.
I- I can't be that person, like I'm not gonna sit here and say like, oh I'm so jolly like let's just all be happy toge- no, I'm pro black.
If we can do what we gotta do without y'all, and leave y'all where the fuck y'all at, I'm with that.
That don't mean that I'm anti white.
I'm just pro black.
I'm not s- sitting here and saying,  alright,  it's over with now let's all be friends.
No.
Y'all beat the fuck out of us, and killed us, and did all types of- raped our fucking mothers and  all that, did all types of shit to us for four hundred years, cause now it ain't going like that for the last a hundred years we gotta just be friends.
No.
They don't work like that.
How could it work like that?
That mean I'm'a be a fake.
Every time I get around you I'm thinking about how you done hung my ancestors.
That's fake of me.
I can't help that, if I'm around a  white people too long  it makes me think about  what they did to us, I can't help that.
That's just in me.
And I- but I'm not anti white.
I don't think I am.
Maybe I am but I don't know I am.
Don't ignore- don't ignore the obvious.
Don't ignore facts and do not ignore the obvious.
That's the message I try to send out to everybody, do not ignore the obvious and do not ignore the facts.
That means  if somebody's giving you- I'm using a metaphor again.
Somebody's giving you-  if somebody tell you it's shit in that grass,  and don't step in that shit.
Listen to that person, don't be like, well I can step over the shit.
My legs long enough, I can get around it.
Nah, just walk the other way.
To the young dudes, if you see  what's going on out here  and you see that, the streets is not where you supposed to be.
You know what I'm saying,  you see that  you not supposed to treat a woman that way, you see that  that's not how it's supposed to this is happen like if you see what you supposed to do and not do,  don't do it just because the next person doing it and they- and it's- and it's cool to society.
Don't do that.
Cause at the end of the day-  And it's another thing I would tell somebody.
Don't never try to chase another person happiness.
Cause that person will always- Why-  Say, I wanna be like you.
Say I see you with your orange shirt on.
So,  last time I saw you, I was so amazed by your orange shirt.
Like, damn I want that orange shirt.
So when I see you next- so when I hear that you coming back around,  oh shit, I'm going to go get that orange shirt.
You know what I'm saying, I'm gonna get me an orange shirts, cause I remember you had that orange shirt on.
So boom.
That orange shirt old as shit to you now.
You done bust out with something exclusive, you got a brand new ass blue shirt on now.
Everybody already seen your orange shirt.
So now I pull up, I got my orange shirt on now I think I'm crushing, now you got the new- the new blue joint on.
Everybody looking at your new blue joint they looking at-   she already had that orange joint.
You know what I'm saying.
So like when people like- you grow up, like-  you be trying to be like this person, you trying to be like that person like,  what is that doing for you?
You try and chase that person happiness, you not gonna never find your happiness cause they gonna always be a step ahead of you and you gonna always be upset about that.
So when I see you with your blue shirt on,  I got my orange shirt, nobody kicking with my orange shirt,  I'm beefing with you now.
When I got my shirt from you in the first place.
You know what I'm saying so it just like it's a lot of that that be going on with the youngins I just like try to tell them like, find your own lane, man.
I don't care if you shovel shit for a living.
Be the best at shoveling shit, a nigga can respect that.
You know what I'm saying.
If- whatever you do, if you do that shit to the best of your abilities, a nigga gotta respect that.
You know what I'm saying, whatever it is that I do or whatever,  if I  do what I do  and I don't never try to straddle the fence and  try to say, oh I'm'a do this or do that, like people know me for doing what I do.
They gotta respect that because they're like, that's him.
He ain't not tryna put on no fake for nobody no nothing,  he gon- he gonna live and die by what he do.
You gotta respect that because  I'm not putting no fakes or no fronts on for nobody.
And that's just what I try to tell little youngins nowadays.
Um, to me all of it it should not be- should be- you know what I'm saying.
N-I-G-G-A, N-I-G-G-E-R,  one was made- was given to us by somebody else, and one we created to make us feel better about what was given to somebody else.
You know what I'm saying.
It's the same thing, you can't change one letter or something and be like, oh, and put a different meaning on it.
You know what I'm saying, what's the di- what's the di- what's the different meanings of both of 'em.
What Tupac said, it's ones with the gold chains around they neck and it's the ones with the ropes around they neck, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah you could say that, but at the end of the day that's something that we made up to make ourselves feel better about somebody degrading us.
So at the end of the day-  And I use the word, it's a part of our culture.
I use the word,  everybody use the word.
But  at end of the day,  it shouldn't be used.
Nigger, nigga whatever, it shouldn't be used, a degrading word.
Yeah it's raining.
Thank you, I really en- you know what I'm saying, I really enjoyed this, I got a lot of little stuff out that I- you know what I'm saying.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.