January twenty third  nineteen ninety two.
Southeast Washington DC.
Woodland.
Mm-hm.
Um, from nineteen ninety two until  um,  late  nineteen nineties.
Um,  I wanna say we moved about two thousand.
Mm-hm.
Um- I-  Woodland,  my whole life.
Um, or- From-  that area- I-  Af- after that?
When I moved to Virginia?
Um, I lived in Virginia my whole lifed.
Mm-hm.
All of the schools?
Okay.
Um,  starting out in DC I went to a Catholic school.
I'm not sure the name of it.
I cannot remember.
Um,  but it  is off of um,  Randolph Street.
And then after that,  when we moved to Virginia, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 Elementary School.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Middle School.
And then I went to  c- uh,  RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
And that was for ninth grade,  and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 High School where I graduated.
Mm-hm.
Uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 University for my bachelor's.
Mm-hm.
I'm a  RD-WORK-7.
Um, and I am a RD-WORK-13 RD-WORK-13 Southeast Washington DC.
Mm-hm.
DC.
He's a plumber.
Um, she's a stay at home mom.
Okay.
And would you like me- Cause basically we moved in two thousand, but we went- we were  in DC cause my grandmother still lived there until about  four or five years ago.
So, you want me to keep all of that my mind of my time in of in DC?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Oh yes.
Okay.
Um, so we lived with my grandmother the majority of the time while we lived in DC.
And I can't remember  the  address or anything cause I was too young.
Um, but it was a townhouse type community, and she lived in the first set of townhouses.
Um,  and the earliest I remember,  um, is that it was a safe environment when I was younger.
And I don't know if I perceived it as safe because I was so young, um, but when I took RD-NAME-1 back about a month ago, like  I called my brother, and I'm like, it looks so different.
Like, it looks unsafe.
But as a child, I'm like,  we went  every holiday.
Um, Fourth of July, we would be outside, literally  until one o'clock in the morning cause we were so young,  um, playing with my cousins, everything.
Um,  so  I-  I do remember though,  there are times when  we heard gunshots, but  we were too young to equate it with  it being worrisome.
Um,  I remember that when we did move, we moved into  a high rise type apartment  building.
Um, and I only remember that because my brother dropped me on my head.
I remem- while we were living there, someone was killed.
Um, and  we were in the car  watching uh, the person  start to run  to the apartment.
And um, I think he made it maybe up three steps before they got him.
Um,  and at the time I didn't know what was going on, but I talked to my mother about it as I got older.
Um, and we moved after that.
We  couldn't live there anymore.
Um,  and about  I wanna say a month later that building actually caught on fire.
Um,  don't remember what it was.
I couldn't tell you the name or anything.
After we moved from there  is when we moved to Virginia.
So going back,  uh, still safe environment.
Literally, I perceived it as a okay environment until I literally took RD-NAME-1 back  a month ago.
Um,  and when I look at it now I see,  you know, the drugs  crackheads,  um,  but  it still feels like home to me.
Like even though we were there, I was on the phone with my dad.
He was telling me to get out of southeast.
I didn't feel  worried,  whereas when I take friends back, they're like, oh my gosh.
There's black people everywhere.
They feel unsafe.
And I don't know if it's cause I grew up there,  I view it as they're black.
I'm black.
They're not gonna hurt me.
Um, unless you c- you know, you're being nosy or something like that.
Um-  I'm sorry.
I don't know if I'm answering your question fully.
But um, yeah.
So,  it was  okay for me  growing up there.
Um, I don't feel like it hindered me.
The only thing that I know hindered me is when we came to Virginia,  me and my brother were behind.
And of course, when we were in DC, we didn't know we were behind.
We were actually advanced when we were in DC.
But I actually had to go through a reading program that first year  of being in DC- um, Virginia.
Uh, second grade.
Uh, full year.
I had to meet with a reading teacher every single day  because I wasn't reading at a second grade reading level.
And um, I remember the times where the teachers were-  little undertones.
It's cause she's from DC.
She wasn't learning when she was in DC.
And my mom's thinking- You know, I attended a Catholic school, a all girl's Catholic school, and my brother's the one that was in the public school  because they didn't have a boy's Catholic school at the time.
So,  I guess those things have stuck with me.
Um,  knowing that DC treats  children very different than Virginia does.
Um, especially little black children.
Um,  and I've learned to not do that to other children, especially to my little cousins that are falling behind.
You know, you never  tell a child  that they're falling behind.
Um,  it made me work that much harder,  of course.
Um, and I- I equate that to me  giving my all  when it came to school work.
Never again will I be labeled as b-  being behind, so.
Hm.
Well, it changed um, as I grew up.
When I was younger actually uh, math was my favorite subject.
Um, for some reason me and my siblings, math has never been a problem.
We've all  exceed- uh, excelled in math.
Uh, whereas my mother, she cannot stand math.
But um,  always had A's in math, um, all of us.
Uh, but I say about middle school is when I  more so preferred science,  um, because the biology of how  we can come  from  a woman has always amazed me, that  for nine months, a child grows inside someone, so  that was amazing to me.
And in general, anything coming from life.
Um,  and then off- also that was a time when I begin to question,  did we come from a god?
Did we we come from  basically dinosaurs, like they're telling us in school.
Um, and it's because I had a student in my class that was a atheist,  and I was in middle school, didn't know any better.
My mother's a Catholic, which my father may have told you.
She's Catholic.
He's Baptist.
We never- Okay.
We never attended church.
They shouldn't have been married to begin with.
Um,  and- Whereas my grandfather was a Mason.
And  of course you know, that is- Yeah, so they never wanted to force religion upon us.
So I  literally to this day have never walked foot in a church to attend church services with my parents  as a whole.
Um, I always went with friends.
They said, you know, if you wanna go, go with friends.
And I'm thankful for that  because I think it led all of us to finding God by ourselves.
All four of us believe in God.
And  never once was it- was it forced upon us.
My little brother?
Goes to church with his friends.
I went to church with my friends.
Um,  but all of that  coming together  made me really-  Well let me find out where science is coming from,  and about that.
Um, when I went to high school-  Hm.
What was it?
I'd say at that point in time,  I think literature  was  my  big thing.
Um, and I think because the school I was at, uh, when we went to RD-SCHOOL-3 High School,  they offered more AP classes in literature.
So I had to read a lot more.
Um,  and I learned of course, at a very young age that  reading  is my key  to going anywhere in life.
Uh, so that came back with me at that point in time.
And- I love the uh, Series of Unfortunate Events,  and I know that  I shouldn't cause I'm twenty three now,  but I love the Series of Unfortunate Events.
Um, and I started reading that when I was- I think that was the first book that the  lady  um, picked out for me to read and we went through that book, um,  because it helped me- She actually had me reading  books that a older child  should have been reading in middle school  to have me learn the bigger words.
Um, so yeah, that's my uh, favorite book.
And I've love Harry Pottah- Harry Potter of course.
Um,  Read all the books.
I've seen all the movies.
I think- Did you watch the movie before you read it?
That's why.
And I don't- Mm-hm.
And I've noticed everyone that I've talked to that has watched the movie first,  cannot read the book.
Our little brother,  uh RD-NAME-2, uh, watched the movie first.
Um, and the- the rest of us, we read the books, so.
I would-  And you might have to read- What books have you read?
Cause you might have to go and read the third book.
Okay.
You might have to  skip the two- first two, and go read the third book.
Cause that was my favorite book,  so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I went to college.
Um,  and I wouldn't even necessarily say I had a favorite subject,  um,  but I love political science.
It's what I majored in.
Um, I love politics.
Okay.
Um,  both my parents- I am the first person  in my whole family to go to college.
Um,  literally, not even immediate family, the whole family.
And um,  my mother  had me  at a very young age.
Um,  by the time my mom was twenty one, she had four children.
And  I promised that I would never  let her down.
Like ever.
Like she literally sacrificed her whole  being to- I'm the second child.
Well, technically I'm the third child.
My mom's oldest son RD-NAME-3 passed away  um, when he was three.
And I- I couldn't give you the details cause I don't wanna talk about it cause it upsets her.
Um, but I know that he was born  um-  I wanna say that he-  Something happened with oxygen,  and it effected his brain development.
Um, so  she was  sixteen at the time, so they took him from her  cause they felt like she couldn't take care  of him,  and she was still in DC at the time.
And  she said something along the lines of he stopped breathing twice.
Got him  back to breathing, and then the third time he wasn't with her.
He was on the bus somewhere with them,  and he stopped breathing, and they called her and told her that her child had passed.
I don't remember RD-NAME-3, but I know that RD-NAME-2 and I  were born  while he was still alive, and I think he passed when she was pregnant with RD-NAME-2.
But I'm not  positive.
Um,  so she had all four of us by the time she was twenty one.
Um, I'm the only girl,  and I  naturally had to take care of  all of my brothers.
Like I've always been the more mature one.
The one that's,  maybe we shouldn't do that.
Um, but I just promised that I would never- She didn't finish  um,  high school.
And I was like, I would never let her down.
Like I need to be that one to go further, to show her that it wasn't in vain basically.
Um,  wanted to go to law school, still wanna go to law school.
But I'd attended uh,  law program through George Mason  while I was living in Woodbridge.
Um, because Caroline County is in Farmville.
Not Farmville.
Um,   Caroline County, Virginia, that's down by King's Dominion.
So when I was still up here,  I went through that program.
Um,  all three years,  and basically I'm like, okay, yeah.
I definitely still wanna be a lawyer.
So when I was at  RD-SCHOOL-3 High School, I went to another  law program for uh,  I wanna say two weeks in Louisiana.
Um, and that was intense program where we actually did mock  inter- uh, interviews, mock trial, everything.
And I loved it,  loved all the learning.
Um,  so I applied to go to George Mason.
I got into George Mason,  uh, but  the-  RD-NAME-3, my girlfriend at the time,  did not get into George Mason.
She got into Virginia State, which I got into Virginia State as well,  and she was interested in RD-SCHOOL-2 for some reason.
I didn't know why.
So we all take a trip down to RD-SCHOOL-2 with two other friends,  and we fall in love  with RD-SCHOOL-2's campus.
Like, it's beautiful.
George Mason is a good school,  educational wise, but it's not beautiful.
It's-  You can get lost there,  whereas we went to  RD-SCHOOL-1 University, we were greeted as soon as we got there.
The black students are running up to us saying, oh my gosh.
Like, you're gonna love it here.
They gave us dinner, fed my mom,  fed my little brother, and at the time, RD-NAME-2 was about  ten I wanna say.
Let RD-NAME-2 go on his own little tour, and I'm like,  this is home.
This is family.
And like, we're really big on family,  whereas when I went to George Mason,  I'm at the back of the tour crowd.
Like,  she- If I wanted to ask a question, she couldn't hear me,  so.
Whereas when I went into RD-SCHOOL-2, and I got in, th- RD-SCHOOL-2 only had four thousand students, and that included the grad students as well.
So,  I'm like, this is home for me,  so.
Um,  said forget George Mason.
Even though I got in, and that's where I literally I wanted to go from sixth grade up until applying.
But  I haven't regretted it.
I enjoyed RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um, it- it- it's a PWI, as you probably already know.
Um, we had our  issues with racism,  but  I was always raised to be strong minded, and  don't worry about the fact that  you got racist people  everywhere,  so.
But yeah, um- Oh no, you're fine.
You're fine   We-  we were very close knit.
I mean one of those friends that I went with, um- her name was RD-NAME-2-  Uh, she went to RD-SCHOOL-2 with me.
Um,  RD-NAME-3 actually didn't get in to RD-SCHOOL-2, even though we went to RD-SCHOOL-2 partially for her.
So she went to State for one year.
But  RD-NAME-2 went,  uh, RD-NAME-3 went, and we were all at the same high school for three years together.
Um, and RD-NAME-2 who we met while we were at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um, it's about two o'clock in the morning, and they have this really old restaurant called Macadoos,  and we went to Macadoos.
And we're out  freshman year, playing, two o'clock in the morning.
Um, cause it's that freedom that none of us have ever had!
And we're walking back on Main Street.
This truck speeds past us.
We're walking,  literally, across the street.
Speeds past us  within-  closer than me and you are right now,  almost hit us, and yells out the window,  niggers.
And I had never  been in fear of my life until that very  point in time.
Cause I'm like, if they were to pull over, there's nothing we can do right now to defend ourselves.
We have some pepper spray.
That's what we have.
And RD-NAME-2 here with us, that's from the inner city,  so.
We can't defend ourselves right now, so I guess that was like the, oh my gosh.
Like, I can't believe  that just happened.
So- Yeah.
At the time it was two thousand ten.
So, and I'm just-  I couldn't fathom that something like that would of really happened, and I'm just like, wow.
Um, went home,  and it wasn't to the point of  tears- Like I didn't have a tear moment until later on, but I-  In regards to my life, in regards to, I can't believe that just happened,  that was that moment  cause I- Like I said, I was in fear of my life, and  like, wow.
So, and all along, you know, we deal with racism while we were at Walmart.
Uh, my roommate freshman year was Caucasian,  and everywhere we would go, we would get looks.
Why are you with her?
Cause obviously we don't know anyone.
We're gonna everywhere together.
We're gonna to Walmart together.
We're gonna go to dinner together.
Looks.
Dirty looks.
Everywhere,  so.
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
Um, and my minor while I was at RD-SCHOOL-2 was Writer- Confessional Writing.
Um, and I wrote a paper about an identity crisis that I had because of where I came from.
I went from DC where there's black people everywhere,  never had to really worry about my race.
Like I- I-  I- I- people think I'm joking.
Like, we didn't know that we were black  until we moved to Virginia.
That- Those conversations never occurred.
There was no reason for them to.
Um, and then digging even further,  I know I have pretty eyes.
I know that I look like I'm biracial.
I know this.
Um,  and you don't have the option to meet my brothers, but  we all look like we're siblings.
You can tell we're all related, but we all look very different.
And I'm the one that has hazel eyes, light skin, was even lighter when I was a child.
So moving to Virginia,  second grade,  that very- very same teacher  told me as I'm filling out  my  forms to take my test,  why are you marking  African American?
I'm black.
What do you mean why am I  barking African American?
Well you need to mark other,  or you need to mark Caucasian and Black.
And I'm like, well my mommy says  that I need to mark Black.
Like full fledged argument with this lady  in second grade.
In second grade!
When I'm about to take a test.
Um,  so  she gets offended, and I'm guessing assuming that my mother is Caucasian since she's about to call my Caucasian mother.
Um,  and I couldn't tell you cause I- I still- I was supposed to aks my mother how that conversation went.
I don't know how it went,  but the teacher called her,  and we didn't really talk about it again-  about the race thing.
It was just come home, you know you're black.
You know you're my child.
You know you're beautiful.
That's it.
That was the extent of our conversation.
Fast forwarding  to- Cause that was right when we moved to Virginia, I guess second grade-  Well I don't even remember how it was, but about  ninth grade, I wanna say, is the next time th-  that identity came up in racism.
Um, my cousin RD-NAME-2 was over,  and I overheard them talking  about our relatives.
Cause til this time, like, I'm honestly believing that I'm black.
I'm just black, and I'm just lighter than everybody else, and I just have hazel eyes for no reason.
I hear them talking about my mother's  mother's  mother.
So my mother's  grandmother, and they're  Caucasian is what I  overhear.
So I'm like, okay, I'm just gonna sit on the steps.
Cause if I come upstairs, obviously they're gonna stop talking.
Apparently,  these Caucasian relatives  decide that they're gonna accept that my great grandmother  is getting married to a black man, and she has  biracial children.
So they tell her to get  her  nigger  man and her porch monkeys  off their property.
And that was the extent of the  relations with our Caucasian family.
And  from that point forward,  I guess my family just took upon that we're not Caucasian.
We're just gonna identify that we're black.
Furthermore,  I talked to my dad about it.
And I'm like, okay, so what am I?
Cause obviously I am  part Caucasian in there somewhere.
So that's when I sit down with him and find out that we are  Cherokee Indian as well  on his side of the family and on my mother's side of the family.
And I'm like, well y'all have me going on my whole life not knowing what I am.
I'm just thinking I'm just lighter than everybody else, and  fine.
And I'm like, and people are telling me,  You're biracial.
Like, we can see that you're biracial.
And I'm like, no.
Like,  which one is it?
Um,  so that- that was really rough for me.
And it's- it's still to this  point in time- And I think, like I said, it's cause when I was younger  we never  talked about  image in my home.
Like, of course my father tells me I'm beautiful every day, but never  realizing that I have pretty eyes.
It wasn't until I moved to Virginia that it was a constant-  In the course of a week, two, three people, oh you have beautiful eyes.
What are you mixed with?
What are you?
And it's like, do we really live in a society where we have to do that?
It's-  Everything's about race.
Everything's about skin color.
Everything's about eye color.
Everything's about hair.
Um, next incident  is when uh, vacationing  in North Carolina, cause that's where we typically go to vacation.
Um, there of course, there's racist people everywhere.
So,  having those conversations where  my older brother, who is darker in skin tone,  gets  dirty looks  more so than I do.
Cause I guess they assume that I'm partially mixed with white, so they accept me more than they would accept him.
And that's still a  issue that we have with my brother now.
Like, he feels like he's the black sheep of the family  cause he's darker.
Like he is  your- about your complexion.
And I'm the lightest out of all of them, but  my two brothers that are  younger  are  like a- in between us basically.
Um, so I guess that would be  the extent of my race issues.
No, my mom is about one shade lighter than you.
I don't know why I'm so light.
I honestly don't know.
Um, and- Mkay, and it's- it's cause our skin.
Okay.
Yeah, and I don't- I don't know.
Um,  I have one other cousin RD-NAME-3  who looks just like me.
We have fair skin,  hazel eyes, and I don't- And I guess it's just a mixture of genes.
And that's what I love about black people.
Like,  you don't know what they're gonna come out looking like.
I- I- Yeah.
And it- it's amazing.
It's beautiful.
Um,  our hair, everything.
I love it.
Um, and  it's through writing that paper  that I- I really came to resonate with my identity.
Cause I- I literally have had identity crisis majority of my life.
Like, where do I  fit in?
Um, being picked on, and I mean I don't-  I don't have nice hair.
My mother,  um,  actually looks Ethiopian.
Her hair is like  jet black,  long, curly  hair.
Um, but we  got my father's hair.
We got the brown genes.
Um, so my hair is- It's manageable, but it's not her hair.
But it's  the constant,  what are you mixed with?
Where are you- why are you playing with us?
You need to be over there playing with them.
So,  and it's-  Well where do I fit in  in this  whole  mex of things- mess of things.
Um, and like, I said, it was just weird cause growing up in DC,  we never had reason to  realize what color we were.
We never talked about  our race,  so.
Okay.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Uh, all of us are.
RD-NAME-2's twenty four.
I'm twenty three.
RD-NAME-2's twenty two.
And RD-NAME-2's fifteen.
So he's a little far off.
And that was- And that's- Yeah, I was about to um,  go into that uh, when I came back to that.
When I went back, like- And I actually almost broke down.
They removed the stoops from in front of my grandmother's house.
Like, we literally would jump  all the way around  the complex  on the stoops.
Um, and there was this really big playground behind my grandmother's house.
Um, and my father wouldn't let me get out the car,  so I couldn't even go behind to see if the playground was still back there.
Um,  but there was a really big playground, and it had this  big  like arc.
And the arc was- It was monkey bars, but as it came over, it would flip to where you could crawl up this way, and then you eventually were on top of the monkey bars and had to figure out how you were gonna get back down.
Um, we played  back there.
Um, we would always walk to the candy lady's house.
Um, and that's- I really miss the candy lady's house.
Um, Mm-hm.
Um, and she had these little like, snow cone things.
I don't even know what it was.
Um, but it's not like the snow cones up here.
Like,  I don't know how to explain it.
But you know, uh, bag of candy for a quarter.
Like a full bag of candy for a quarter.
Um, and I really miss that, but uh, we  just went for walks.
There's a pool down the street from my grandmother's house.
Um,  riding bikes.
Um, my dad was a-  We had our issues now, but  back at that time, like he was a very  hands on,  outside,  playground or  you know, we're gonna  just  w- walk  and explore  today,  type thing.
Um, but I say like,  if I really think about it, majority of our time was spent  jumping on those stoops.
And I don't know why it entertained us for hours, but we would literally jump from stoop to stoop.
Yup.
Stoops.
And actually, we would play on the clothing lines, now that I think about it.
Um, the line wasn't there anymore, but the  bar was still there.
Um, and I was very flexible as a child, so I would literally grab on and spin  around  the thing constantly.
Um,  and that's how I know now that things have changed so much to what we're afraid of.
Like, my parents would  let us spin around it.
Like, not worry that it's concrete under us.
And it's like-  It was- Everything was fine then, you know.
No worry  in the world.
Mm-hn.
No.
Mm-hm.
And I do.
I do remember.
Um,  cause my mom is um,  from- What i- It's something with a d,  where's she actually from.
Yes.
That's where my mother grew up.
And my father's from Woodland.
And there's Berry Farms.
And I r- And I do remember cause I- I was a nosy child, very very nosy child.
So I remember them going back and forth um, constantly uh, cause  the family is so  dispersed that  when they moved, you know, even though you're from Deanwood,  or-  Whatever, it's- it's Deanwood right?
You  moved to Berry Farms, so you resonated with them.
So you know, f- fighting with family, your own family.
So, I- I do remember  constantly you know, getting killed from it, like,  and then my- my Uncle RD-NAME-2, my mother's  older brother was actually murdered  in DC.
And it's- Mm-hm.
Still don't know,  to this day,  who killed him.
Shot seventeen times in cold blood.
Yup.
He was eighteen at the time.
Um,  I wanna say  it was about  ninety three or ninety four.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And my mom was asking RD-NAME-1 how that goes.
Um, cause it's on Benning Road, and there's two Benning Roads,  so when they said Benning Road, I didn't know which one it was.
And RD-NAME-1 actually took me past it so I could find out which one it was.
Um, but she asked, you know, how are the kids playing together?
The same , and it's-  They're too little  to-  Here, they know they can play here, but when they go home, it's, we go our separate ways.
And it's crazy to watch these kids grow up,  and they turn around and kill each other because of what they're being told by someone else.
Mm-hm.
We- No.
Um,  I actually didn't go  to the monuments, and I may not remember it.
I- I seriously doubt that they took us actually,  but  I didn't go  to the monuments until I was in middle school.
When I was in Virginia, we took a trip back  to go  to monuments um, and I've been telling my parents I'm gonna take RD-NAME-2.
Um,  cause  in my family, education was import- important, but those  structural things, the materialistic things, weren't important.
They never took us to go see  the Lincoln Memorial,  never took us to walk on the mall.
They never took us to stand where Martin Luther King Junior stood,  type things.
So no,  I- I didn't know what any of that stuff was  um, literally until I moved  to Virginia, and I heard  the, you're from DC, and you never-  No, I haven't,  so.
Um,  sorry.
Um,  but I do realize the beauty in those things, and I love museums.
And  I love  taking walks and love the cherry blossoms and everything.
But no, they never  took us to any of that stuff.
Um,  they took us to a couple like, basketball games, like the Wizards and  the um-    the Harlem Globe Trotters.
And they would always take us to the circus.
That was fun.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um, and my mom says that she's lying, but my grandmother swore that she went to a segregated school.
Um,  and that-  Cause she's  a little lighter- She was a little lighter than me actually.
Um,  and  they swear that she looked just like me when she was a child, but I don't know.
But  she was picked on obviously.
Um,  cause you know, going to a segregated school,  where should she fit in?
Um, especially in DC where people are typically darker in skin tone in DC.
So, where should she fit in?
Um, she said that  she was beat up in school.
The teachers would beat the crap out of her.
Um-   She said she felt like she was picked on.
Mm-hm.
And um-  I'm tryna remember what else  she said.
Um,  but  my grandmother  didn't grow up in DC.
Um,  my grandmother, I wanna say  grew up in North Carolina?
I think that's where she met my grandfather,  and then they moved to DC later.
Um, Yes.
Um,  and I remember her um-  Cause my grandmother was an alcoholic, so it depend on the day  um,  what she was feeling that day, I guess you could say.
And  sometimes, and you know, it was like, ab- about the growing up hard,  growing up a woman, um, cause my grandmother I guess was born in about  nineteen  thirty or nineteen fortyish?
Um,  so always telling me, you know, you got to be a young lady,  um,  and to this day, I remember, and I tell people all the time.
My grandmother drunk beer,  but she would pour  the beer into a glass.
Always drunk out a straw.
Never put her lips on the rim of a cup.
Um, and she would yell at me for it.
Like, you're a young lady.
Why are you doing that?
You shouldn't do that.
And I- I guess it confused me because I guess my family grew up in DC, but she didn't grew up in DC.
She grew  i- up in the South somewhere.
Not- not positive.
I think it was North Carolina.
In the South.
Um,  and I wanna say cause her lan-her last name  was uh- her maiden name was RD-NAME-3,  so I think she grew up  wherever the RD-NAME-3 farm is, I think is where she's from.
But um,  you know, and then  of course, depending on the day, she would tell me- she would remember that her relatives that are older than her were actually slaves.
According to her, I don't know if she was telling the truth, but they were slaves so.
You know, she was that first generation coming out of slavery is what she was tryna say.
Um,  and it was just hilarious to us, that  um-  And  just education was important to her.
Like, I- My fondest memories of her are her-  She lived in a three level townhouse, so we would literally go all the way up to the top  and count every single one of those steps  back and forth until we learned how to count.
That's how all of us- like, literally it's how all bran ch- RD-NAME-1 children learned how to count  the steps.
Um, and I remember and I aksed RD-NAME-2, cause RD-NAME-2 was  three when she passed,  and he still remembers  that that's how he learned how to count  steps.
so.
Two thousand and eleven.
Mm-hm.
It depends on which one.
She had a lot of  cars.
Mm-mm.
I remember a-  a car being keyed up.
Um,  I remember  her having a lot of issues with the woman in the neighborhood.
Um, because she was younger,  she had no business being with my father.
Um, I'm pretty sure he probably told you that too.
And that's- that's debatable too.
Um, so according to him, when we were children, what he would tell us when he was putting us to bed, he was walking down the street,  and he saw my mother getting off the bus.
And that was the woman he was gonna marry.
So my father was thirty five, and my mother, sixteen.
So, and I tell him all the time, you had no business talking to my mother, but I- I wouldn't be here if you didn't.
But apparently in the neighborhood, my father, of course, thirty five, have had numerous girlfriends in the neighborhood,  so I remember her saying you know, she was constantly attacked,  badgered.
She's not from Woodland.
You know?
She's from Deanwood.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
And she- she constantly had to deal with that.
And I remember that she constantly was calling my cousins coming up.
Like I- They- they-  They were- I tell people my mother and my father are crazy, and they never- Cause they came to Virginia, and they calmed down.
But  they- I remember  her calling my cousin RD-NAME-2, my cousin RD-NAME-1,  my cousin RD-NAME-2.
Like, coming to fight people because she was constantly attacked.
Um,  because that's not where she should have been.
So  um,  that- that's what I do remember.
I don't remember anyone keying the car up.
But it could have happened.
Um,  and what I do remember,  is my mom starting fights with people with golf clubs and what not, getting out the car with my cousin RD-NAME-2 fighting people with people cutting them off.
Um,  and that's just the difference in-  in culture I guess you could say, and what's perceived as okay.
And like, my mom literally has come all the way down.
Cause I'm like five, six, remembering like sun roof- my cousin RD-NAME-2 and the sun roof,  golf club.
Like, I can't believe you just did that.
Throwing cans and  craziness.
Craziness.
That's what I do remember.
And that's only okay in DC.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Oh yeah, and I can- I can keep telling you the rest of that s- that story.
So, he's from Woodland, still lives with my grandmother.
At thirty five years of age, should not be living with my grandmother.
So my mother comes over.
My mother and my grandmother get into it.
Um, I don't remember why they got into it, but they got into it.
Um, but I guess they eventually worked it out cause my mother  and my grandmother-  my- my  paternal grandmother had a great relationship.
But I remember that when my mother went to go take my father to meet her mother,  that was a different story.
According to her, my grandmother pulled out a knife,  and she was gonna stab my father.
Um, and it's age difference.
Um, why are you,  grown man, talking to my child?
basically.
Cause my mother was a child, and I can- I know she was a child.
Um,  and they just  apparently- and if I do the math,  I wanna say RD-NAME-2 was conceived  the following year.
So  April I think is when they met?
And RD-NAME-2 was conceived the  next January-  not January.
Uh, this  September, October  um,  ish of that year.
So Robert was born  following year over.
So  that- that's what I know from what he told me, from- well  mixing together what my mother told me.
Um- Yes, but when I was a child, like the story ended with the-  and I mean, it's cause we're so little, we don't realize- Well obviously,  something had to happen in between.
Got off the bus,  the woman he was gonna marry,  story ends!
He- he gets his bride  is way it end.
We're fine with that of course, so.
Mm-hm.
We lived with my grandmother um, until I was five Um, at least.
And then we moved into that apartment I was telling you about.
D- RD-NAME-2.
Yes, RD-NAME-2 was born in Virginia, in Alexandria, Virginia.
Mm-hm.
All of- All four of us.
My  brother- my dad's brothers.
So my uncles, Uncle RD-NAME-2,  Uncle RD-NAME-2- A house full.
Litera- Cause uh, my grandmother lived in a  big house, like a- She lived in the- And it's so weird in DC cause the one that conjoins  the townhouses- the biggest townhouse.
So if I had to explain, like you turn into Reynold's Place,  and then  it  is like a-  like a-  How do I explain?
Like, it comes like this.
So it h- like a 'L'.
Like a- a s- a- Yeah, like a slanted 'L'.
The one in the middle right here is the one that my grandmother lived in, so this is the three level one that's the biggest house.
And there was uh- like-  eight or ten rooms in that house.
So, three levels.
Yeah, it was a really big house.
And- No, it didn't, but when I look at it now, I know we were cramped, but I didn't- Cause I remember that my- my cousins lived there at a point in time.
My Uncle RD-NAME-2's daughter, RD-NAME-3  and um,  RD-NAME-2 lived with us.
And I remember all of us slept in one bed, one really big bed.
And I remember,   because of course, it's time to go to bed, but we're packed like sardines so why are we going to bed?
There- We're little.
Um, and every night,  my dad would, go to bed!
Go to bed!
and he would come in there and spank all of us.
Um, and I'm saying spank cause it's what- We're in Virginia now, but he would whoop all of us.
Um,  it's time to go to bed.
So,  and I also remember that when we- And my mom's amazed that I remember, cause I remember little things from when I was like  one, two and three,  when it was just me and RD-NAME-2.
Um, and she's telling me you know, RD-NAME-3 was there as well, but he didn't live with us.
And I remember Mom and Dad had this little toddler bed, like tiny tiny toddler bed, and we slept right beside them in the bed.
And I tell her like- And she's like, I can't  believe you remember that.
But I remember that we slept right beside them in my grandmother's house.
And we were in the room over from my grandmother.
And then my uncles lived on the third floor  with  their children  basically.
Um, and then throughout the years, interchanging, in and out.
Um,  and when we lived in the-  the high rise, we lived with my mother's  family.
My cousin RD-NAME-1, and I think my cousin RD-NAME-2 may have lived there at one point in time.
Um,  and then we-  we lived with people, I wanna say until  two thousand and- literally, until RD-NAME-2 was born, so until two thousand and-  early two thousand, two thousand one, we lived with people.
I think  we moved to Virginia, and  my um,  mom I guess probably just got tired of living with people.
Um, of course, you know, you're family but  and you can deal with family  for so long, basically.
Um, and my father's always wanted his own- Like he grew up in a cramped home, and I don't know if he went into details about  him being in a foster home or anything.
Did he tell you about any of that?
Okay.
So  you want your own  eventually.
Like, you constantly having to share ten brothers and sisters.
Like, you have to share everything.
And he didn't want us to do that.
So they found a townhouse.
So we moved to- We- That's the first house- We lived in a townhouse on  Place.
Um,  and  I mean it was small.
My brothers had to share a room,  but  it was our own, I guess you could say so.
But I don't- I did- I don't really know exactly why, but I'm assuming that's why that they  finally- And I mean my dad had  been making  enough- I guess once, like, there was a point in time- Cause my mom said my dad wasn't making a lot of money.
Like he was making minimum wage when he started out as a plumber.
And there was a point in time when it shifted, and then he started making a lot more money than he was making.
Um,  so he went from making like seven dollars an hour to jumping to about like fourteen, fifteen dollars an hour,  you know, and eventually coming to the point now where he's making over thirty something dollars an hour.
So  I don't know when it shift, but I'm assuming that probably coincided with them being able to  move to Virginia cause Virginia's more expensive than living in DC of course.
Um- Well at that time it was.
Now  it's  reverse.
But so.
Mm-hm.
Um, I go- I say in the course of a year, maybe three to four times a year.
Um, and that could be just going to the waff,  um,  going to  um,  just  walk around.
Uh, walking down, uh, where um-  What is that road?
Uh, Pennsylvania Avenue down  where the President's house is, down just looking at like, the shops and everything.
Um,  we could go visit a family member.
Actually, including visiting family members, probably like seven or eight times over the course of the year.
Um- Yes, there's only  three family members that actually live in  uh, Virginia now.
All of our family still lives in DC.
Um- Mm-hm.
Um, my f- my father's family does.
Um,  all of his brothers actually.
The only brother of his that does not live in Southeast DC anymore is my Uncle RD-NAME-2.
Um, and I don't know if he told you, the oldest three have different father.
So, Uncle RD-NAME-2, Aunt RD-NAME-2, and Uncle RD-NAME-3, all have different fathers.
They're RD-NAME-2,  and  my Uncle RD-NAME-2 and-  Well actually all three of them live in Maryland.
Now that I think- all three of them.
Um, and it's cause of the g- age gap.
Like there's a twenty year age gap,  so my dad- The next set.
Mm-hm.
Um,  so they were able you know- they weren't caught up, you know, in the foster homes.
My grandmother going through I guess like a- seriously, like a mid life crisis, what she went through.
Sorry.
Um, so  they were able to- You know, my Uncle RD-NAME-2 joined the military.
My Aunt RD-NAME-2,  I wanna say started working for the US postal sarv- service.
And I don't know what my Uncle RD-NAME-3 does, and I was actually having a conversation with my parents about it.
Like, I don't really remember my Uncle RD-NAME-3 growing up  a lot.
Like I know he was there,  um, and I saw him because my- my f- father's brother just passed a couple months ago.
Um, and he was at the funeral, and I was talking to RD-NAME-2 about it,  and I'm like, I don't-  I  couldn't tell you anything about Uncle RD-NAME-3.
Like, I honestly don't remember him  growing up.
And I told him that my extent of remembering is that he's over seven feet tall.
And it was just a tall uncle.
That's all.
Tall uncle.
So, uh, but he was never really there growing up.
And I don't know if it's cause he felt a- a difference between-  You know, we're big on, we're RD-NAME-1.
And like you always hear- it's like, we'll never defny the fact that we're RD-NAME-1.
He's RD-NAME-2.
Um,  and- Yeah.
So I think he felt like they were treated differently  by  my biological  grandfather,  who passed before I was born, so I couldn't tell you anything about the man cause I don't remember him.
But  you know there was that shift  of,  these are RD-NAME-1.
These are RD-NAME-2,  type thing.
Um, but going back to what- what you were saying of course, um,  visiting DC.
Um, you know we go over to  one of my um,  cousins lived off of Benning Road, my mother's family.
Um, and then my uncles, you know, they're- they're  in and out of  where they're  living.
You know, drugs and everything.
And then my father had a- a-  a brother- We believe was a brother, my Uncle um,  RD-NAME-2.
Uh, we- we didn't know it wasn't his brother.
Um,  So we would go to visit him  of course, um, until he passed.
But- F- no.
My Uncle RD-NAME-2 just passed recently.
Um- Oh, okay.
Um, but he- he passed some years back.
But um, definitely in and out to see family over the course of the year.
Um, I say probably no more than ten times a year, but definitely at least seven,  eight times a year, going to go visit family.
I want to move back to DC.
Um, I don't- Yeah, I don't like living in Virginia.
Like, this whole Virginia is for lovers is bull crap.
Um, especially since I'm homosexual.
Like, it's- No.
Like, I'm like- That's where I'm accepted for who I am.
Um,  and it depends on where y- where you're going on where you'll  be  accepted.
Um, and that's part of the identity crisis as well, which I wrote in the paper.
Um, cause I didn't tell my parents until I was in high school,  um, whereas I knew  at a early age.
But um,  I guess, overall um,  I- I-  That- I feel like that's home  even though I was only there until I was eight, actually living there.
We- Even though we moved out- We were still there, and this is  currently how often we go.
We were  in DC every weekend  after we moved.
Like, literally co- Like it was like we never moved from there, you know.
So,  and I- I don't wanna move to Southeast.
I wanna move to Northwest, DC.
It's where I would prefer to live at.
Um, there's so much opportunity there, you know.
I like that  in DC you can- There's a store on every corner.
Like you don't have to  have a car.
Gas is expensive.
You can walk  wherever you have to go.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
That's ??.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And it's interesting talking to people that- You know, that's the nation's capital.
Um,  and then being an investigator now, I get to speak with  you know, twenty people over the course of a week.
And you know, telling them that I'm from DC,  and it's- Once they got into the government, they never expected it to be like that.
You know, cause they're from like  everywhere but  DC.
And it's like, literally, you can go one street over  and be killed.
So- And it- it's-  And I- I always tell RD-NAME-1, you know if you're not from there,  don't go where you're not supposed to be going.
Know where you're going, and go there and come back.
Cause it's not safe, depending on where you go.
Um, but  I could see myself moving back to Southeast if- We know, once they're done cause  it's gentrification.
Like they're- they're cleaning it all out.
Um, I give them maybe ten more years before they  clean it all up.
Yeah, and it's- They're taking- Yeah.
They're taking back the nation's capital.
Um, and it- it's cause when my father was a child, you know there was-  care free, no- Like, that was when DC began to boom,  when he was a child.
So it was safe.
My grandmother  worked at the Treasury, like  everything was fine,  so.
Um- And I think it depends, and I guess it- it- Cause I was actually speaking with someone about it, um,  that-  He's from DC as well, but none of his family lives there anymore, whereas me, my family still lives in there, in these ghettos, in these projects.
So it's directly and personally affecting them, but  on the other side, I know that  in those same projects, are where you have crack  cocaine,  where people are being killed every day.
And I think that it's for the greater,  however, I think in the same process,  realize that these are real people that we're talking about  that you're- you're literally putting out of their homes, and not giving them somewhere else to go.
It's, we're gonna knock this down on this date.
Be gone.
So people turn into the streets,  turning to life, and I know my father probably didn't go into great detail.
Like, one of my mother's sisters was a prostitute  for over twenty years.
And it's like you- you're pushing people back into that life because people don't know in Virginia there are still prostitutes walking around in DC.
Everywhere.
And it's cause  they- they don't know.
Sh!
Um,  yeah, they- they don't know,  and  you push people to that life, you know.
You're pushing people back to the streets, back to selling drugs,  back to selling themselves.
Back to you know, even  selling,  you know, children  you- you- Yes.
Yeah, and it's- that's my worry,  I guess in the- in the long run.
Um, so I guess I'm just- I'm- I'm caught in the middle of what you need to do.
Mm-hm.
And I- And I- Reason why I say it could be a good thing because um, I went to Atlanta, Georgia in um,  college for uh, s- uh, community service for a week.
And they're further along in this gentrification process than DC is,  and I'm seeing the positive that's coming out of it.
Um, and I love black people, and people say I'm racist, but I'm not.
But I j- I love my own race.
I love what we've come to be  as a society, where we're going, where we can be.
So  literally, the whole time I'm there- I'm there for a week- I see two white people the whole time I'm there.
Black  ran businesses, black owned businesses.
And I see what it could be, what DC could be  once  they're done.
And in my job, you know, seeing black people working in the DEA,  things that I never knew.
Like I- Literally seeing so many black people that have done so many positive things for their lives,  and majority of them work in DC.
So I'm like, what could we be in those ten years,  if we're able to clean up these projects, and clean them up the right way, and give people the right opportunities.
And  so many intelligent people, because m-  And I mean, it may just be me, but my father's  line, you know- We have intelligent people in our family, very very intelligent people.
I was given the opportunity  to go to school  whereas  still, I'm literally still the only one that has went to college and graduated.
And it's- My other families weren't given the opportunity.
You know, that little cousin I was telling you about that I lived with,  I haven't spoken to her in over seven years.
I don't know where my little cousin is.
Could be on the streets selling herself for all I know.
Like I honestly don't know.
And she's literally one year older than my b- my little brother.
You know, seventeen year old little girl, don't know where she is.
Father doesn't know where she is.
Like,  craziness,  so.
And like I say- I- I r-  I- I realize what they're going through.
I resonate with a lot of them, cause like I said, that- my mom's sister,  like a-  having serious conversations with her.
Like I can't believe that she was a prostitute.
Um, and it's cause I- I mainly grew up in Virginia, I was  tainted by society.
Like, I was very secluded.
I didn't know all these things.
I- I was in the bubble.
Um, and I had- And I had to be brought back out the bubble once I was old enough to understand.
Mm-hm.
Um, and having those conversations that, you know, and you know, being exposed, you know, she ended up  getting Hepatitis B  because of the lifestyle she- life that she lived.
Drugs,  and it's just  the environment she was in,  so.
Mm-hm.
We do.
N-   Mm-hm.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah,  and people are amazed  that  um- And we were amazed when we- Cause we didn't know when we were younger that my dad  did drugs, was strung out on drugs.
I didn't find out I think- And I was always mature, so I found out when I was about ten.
Whereas, they couldn't tell my brothers until they were like fifteen, sixteen cause they couldn't handle it!
Like, the would have broke down type thing.
Um,  but you know, realizing that I'm very thankful  that-  Where could we have been  if my father didn't wake up  and realize- Cause I don't know if he told you how long- He was using drugs until  I was about ten,  until- literally until RD-NAME-2 was born.
And it was  hidden from us.
And I thank them for hiding that from us, you know.
Um,  but  you know, had- had he not woken up  and realized that,  you know- But there's another side to that, that I'm quite sure he didn't go into detail, um, cause I don't even think he realizes.
He had to turn from one drug  to another hard drug, alcohol.
My father drinks alcohol every day.
And it's - He's from DC?
Oh.
No one told me that he's from DC.
No one told me that.
We're from Southeast.
Woodland.
Woodland.
Mm-hm.
Around the corner.
Oh.
My dad is outside!
You may know him.
RD-NAME-3.
No, you're fine.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
And I- I-  I honestly- And it's- I have these conversations with him  when he's vulnerable to have those conversations.
And I explain to him- cause, my father had a education, but his education stopped at high school.
So he doesn't know, you know, the science behind things that I'm explaining to them  where  your body gets used to that something,  and you have to pull that something from somewhere else.
And he's found it in alcohol.
So my father is a alcoholic.
Um,  and he raised us to be honest- it's why you found that he's very honest- was always raised to be very honest about anything.
There's no need to hide anything.
Um-  Mm-hm.
And he- he honestly is a alcoholic.
Um,  and it's affected our lives  more so here recently in the past five to eight years I wanna say.
Um, it's gotten worse,  and it's cause him and my mother are having problems.
Um, and it's because she- And it's- it's realizing that- and I'm- I'm bringing this up because it- it relates back to where we're from-  that eventually  it- society will get you.
And she had us at a early age, so  RD-NAME-2's about to be sixteen.
She's ready to live her life now  cause she didn't get to live it before.
And that's what- I don't know what I would do if I was twenty three years old, and I had four babies, two of 'em in elementary school already.
Forty seven.
Forty seven, and she's ready to live her life cause she- she couldn't.
She- she honestly couldn't.
So I'm sorry- I said forty seven.
My mom's only forty two, sorry.
She's forty two.
Um,  and she never got to experience prom,  going out with the friends.
She was at home  with three babies.
And during these times when, I don't remember,  when he was out, strung out on drugs.
I- we don't remember.
She never- She wasn't that mom that said, your father's doing blah blah blah blah blah while I'm doing- we never knew any of that.
We never knew.
Um,  and it's like, you lived your life.
Let me go live mine.
I got my children  to eighteen.
One, he's sixteen.
He can take care of himself now.
And he can't- my father  was born in the fifties.
He can't-  a woman shouldn't be doing that.
A woman should be at home taking- like, that's why I said my mother's a stay at home mom.
She should be at home taking care of her children,  so they're having that little  crisis right now, and he's resorting  to more and more alcohol.
Because of that,  so.
Oh, ask all the questions that you need to ask.
You're fine.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um,  my favorite book again, is the Series of Unfortunate Events, um,  and it's because it-  at every hook,  uh, the oldest  s-  sibling  found a way  to  turn it around.
And I don't know if it's cause I'm- n- as I gotten older, I realize that it resonated a lot with my life.
Um,  I had to be the oldest.
Yeah.
And I had to always do what was in the best interest of me and my brothers.
Always.
And I still am to this day.
Like I- I helped take care of he- his two children that he  made.
Like, I literally today was watching his youngest child.
Um,  and  favorite TVree show.
Um,  it depends.
Like I like-  like Law and Order type  things, so Law and Order SVU is probably my favorite TV show.
Honestly.
Um,  and I like that,  you know, there's no need to hide anything I said before.
Like, face the facts  and let's find a way to move forward.
So I like those real life-  things really could happen.
Um, and I like helping people.
I love giving back, um, and I actually started volunteering here with the cheerleaders.
Um, I didn't know what the Boys and Girls Club was  um, until I got a little bit older and really realized their mission, until I met RD-NAME-1.
Cause RD-NAME-1 grew up in a Boys and Girls Club.
And I think it's amazing that you're getting them at this age  before it turns into problems.
And then  literally there's a child on the cheerleading squad-  I have five to seven mind you-  that's a bully.
I was bullied.
So it's counteracting that now,  explaining to her why she needs to stop it now.
Before  you have those incidents where those children are hurting themselves,  killing themselves  because of what you're doing  to them.
So, and you wouldn't believe six years old,  looks like a little angel,  bullying another six year old,  so.
Yeah, but that's- that's probably  my favorite TV show.
Um, and like I said, feel free- if you need to ask more questions, like I understand it's important.
It's your dissertation it's important stuff.
Yes, I love go go.
That's my favorite music.
Mm-hm.
I love a variety of music.
I love country music too, but I- I love- Yes, but I love- I love love love go go, and it's cause I love dancing.
Um,  let's see.
I don't-  I actually- I like the song Welcome to DC actually.
I probably shouldn't like the song but have you seard- heard the song Welcome to DC?
Okay yes.
Please listen to Welcome to DC.
Um, very very out there.
Um, I think CCB is probably  my favorite.
Um,  and it's a v-  variety,  and they're areays- always speaking the truth.
In this new go go where they're just taking other songs and turning into go go music- it's like, no.
It's speaking  the truth.
I love Chuck Brown.
Um,  and it's- I- I remember  um- and that's why I can't- I can't complain  at  you know, what environment I was exposed to.
Cause as I'm older, I'm remembering  the late nights, and that's why my dad's dancing.
Like, that's what we used to do all night.
Like he would literally- Yeah.
He would put me on his toes, like his feet,  and we would dance all night.
Literally.
And with my uncles as well.
That's- that's honestly what we did.
And it's- I love music.
Um, music  speaks to the soul.
Like I love the older music.
Like you will  l-  catch me listening to all the old school.
Like I love  Marvin Gaye.
Um, RD-NAME-1 was  actually complaining the other night cause I'm listening to Marvin Gaye.
And I'm like, this is  our music,  honestly.
And I was telling her that they should have signed me up for jazz.
Like I loved jazz.
I loved byue-  blues.
Like I love all types of music.
But  yeah.
I think  CCB probably.
I love Mumbo Sauce, too.
Um, I think the same thing, uh, speaking  the truth.
Um,  and I love Rare Essence as well.
Um,  but I'm tryna think what's that song that Mumbo- I think it's called  Anthem or something like that.
I can't remember what the name of the song is that Mumbo Sauce sings.
Um- Oh, you're talking about the- Oh yes.
I love mumbo sauce too.
Yes, I love- And RD-NAME-1 doesn't-   Told her- I said, you don't what mumbo sauce- You don't know what fried chicken is til you go to DC.
Um- And what  street is that?
Um, and then it's this- cause I was so young that I could drive you there, but I don't remember the name of the street cause I was too little.
But basically, where we would go to Reynold's Place  is  coming down that hill.
And I don't know- Do you know where Reynold's Place is?
Cause let me- let me describe to you what's in that area cause maybe you'll remember it from there.
This  carry out that we went to, right behind it was like a- a type of Best Way type store.
It was like a grocery store.
Um,  so you came- The carry out was right here and to the left, there was like a long  driveway that she went down to the  carry out- I mean the uh, grocery store.
And to the left of that was some other restaurants.
Yes.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
And that's the carry out that we always went to.
And we went to this other carry out, where the- the lady was killed actually,  where we went to go get uh, fish sandwiches.
I don't remember what it's called,  but- Um- I actually had mumbo sauce when I took RD-NAME-1 to DC  um, about a month ago.
Um,  and people from here don't like it for some reason.
Say, I don't like sweet chicken, and it tastes funny, and no-  Mm.
They don't know what mumbo sauce is.
Um,  and the  Top China out here has mumbo sauce, but it doesn't taste like the Mumbo sauce in DC.
Like if I- when I equate the word carry out?
And I say, no.
It's different  because of being in Virginia.
The Chinese restaurant here- Chinese here is  strict Chinese food, and they sell  fried chicken too.
But the carry out in DC, you know, you had your- your fish sandwiches, your uh, fried chicken, your soul food, your collard greens.
That's what was at our carry out.
Um,  and if- I think they sold tuna salad as well actually at that carry out.
I  don't remember.
Um,  and then you know your french fries.
And as a child, I didn't like french fries for some crazy reason, so I never ate the french fries.
Um- But I've noticed in DC too, you know, they have like, the crinkly  french fries.
Um, and out here they have the straight like  shoe  french fries.
But I never  liked them.
I still don't like them to this day.
Um,  but you know, you add your hot sauce and your ketchup and all that stuff, but  yeah.