RD-NAME-4  Thirty-eight.
Southeast DC.
Um-  mm,   I lived at twenty-four eighteen Elvans Road Southeast.
Which was called Stanton Oaks, down the street from Wellington Park  Jaffey Terrace.
It was  hard growing up there.
You had to watch your back.
And that's it.
Um Uh, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3  RD-SCHOOL-2 then I went to RD-SCHOOL-2  Junior High School.
Mm I had no favorite teachers I just did what I had to do to get out of there.
Um,  Stanton Oaks  was ghetto.
Um,  the kids was bad,  there was always shooting,  fighting.
Um, robbing.
Basically it,  that's it.
Mm-hm.
The- the same thing that's what's going on down there now.
No ain't nothing change.
My father from Brooklyn,  New York and my mom from Massachusetts Avenue, Southeast.
Yup.
My mother had one boy and three girls.
Mm-hm.
And I have sisters  and brothers from my father.
Uh, mm  sort of.
They was born and raised in South Carolina but moved to DC.
when my mom and my uncle was young.
Um,  going to my grandmother house, going to the basement,  Christmas, Thanksgiving,  turn on the music and just have parties.
No, not really, kind of sort of, we just  go over  fam-  family house  to eat.
Sometimes I cook  Thanksgiving dinner but  we go to my brother house  maybe  cause his house is bigger than my space.
Um,  I've been married for fourteen years, will be fifteen next year.
Mm-hm.
They got s-  this slang I don't know what they call it but- Um,  w- whatever they call it, ebonics?
That's what they used to call it, ebonics?
They don't p- speak proper English,  I know that.
Mm.
Right- like when you say "young,"  "that's chill," whatever them little words they be using.
Young, chill, what else they use.
Uh, we  uh, how you know  DC from different  areas is from go go,  that was the main  outlet for the kids, go go.
And that's it.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Uh,  it used to be Junk Yard and Back Yard but they too- they bring too many young crowds so  now there's Familiar Faces, all the old bands.
Rare Essence,  Junk Yard, Backyard, Northeast Groovers,  and Chuck.
Recently or before?
Well- Yeah.
Yeah w- uh, back in the day we would used to go to the Black Hole,  we used to park our  cars on Georgia Avenue,  go in the  go go  to see Essence,  have fun,  come back outside,  the car's broken into.
All the windows broken out  on one side.
Now, when you go- when you- when we go out, we go to the Howard Theater,  parking is good,  you don't have to worry about nobody breaking in your car.
That's it.
They got that unique sound.
That's it.
The fa- the fast pace, the fast beats That's it.
On the wings?
Oh.
Mumbo sauce is the best.
You could put them on anything, your fries, your chicken,  your rice,  it's just the best-  best sauce that you ever had in DC.
I think it's vinegar hot sauce,  ketchup,  and something else.
Something.
But  uh, the carry outs brought it to  DC  and they've-  that's what everybody order.
Five wings and fries with mumbo sauce on everything.
Mm.
Tasteful.
Growing up in DC,  what I would give these young parents today,  is  stay active.
If you don't wanna be on the street just stay active, keep your kids active.
Um,  The young girls today wanna be friends with they kids.
That's why these kids growing up disrespecting they parents.
I was taught  to respect adults.
And now,  I don't know what these kids  today-  I- I just don't know how they been raised but  the way me and my husband raise our kids we raised 'em with re-  respect and we try to keep them active to keep them off the streets.
If you keep your kids active  then you shouldn't have any problems.
My outlet  to  be out  of the  street life was basketball, volleyball, softball, and I ran track.
Um, if I didn't do them things I would be- I think I wouldn't have met my husband,  I would still be in the ghetto  like some of my friends.
So I appreciate my mom  for  you know  letting me do what I wanna do in school that was playing basketball,  volleyball,  softball, ran track,  and of course my grades had to stay  A's and B's for me to participate, if they didn't  I would get punished, so.
If you wanna survive DC you have to be active.
So.