Washington, DC.
I moved around to a lot of different neighborhoods.
So  um, w- a kind of a joke that we tell with our mother is like,  we stay in a place for four years  that's basically  what we do.
So I've lived in uh- s- all-  all regions of the  Washington area, Washington DC.
I've lived now in four quadrants.
Okay.
Yes.
Suitland, Maryland.
Up at District Heights- Forestville.
That was a lot.
No  I'm a senior .
Yes, I'm a senior.
Yes, ma'am.
My father was born in DC.
DC.
Which- um-  so-   Right.
So, I have-  well,  when you say- when people say dad, I usually go to who  basically is my step father who's been in my life for- since I was two years old.
So I don't really remember him not being in my life.
So-  Yeah.
S-  yes,  cause he-  but he was born in DC too so,  he- I-   Right, everybody-  Yes, everybody.
He works at RD-WORK-2,  so he's basically like a um,  gas technician.
So he like mixes different gasses so that, like, when you get oxygen for hospitals?
He fills those tanks, and like helium and stuff like that.
My mom works at um, RD-WORK-2- well, not RD-WORK-5.
She works at RD-NAME-5,  and she's the manager  there for uh, car services.
I know who he is.
Yeah, he- he's kind of in my life.
Kind of.
It's like,  uh, so  when- since I was-  my mom says since I was two weeks old my grandparents would pick me up  every two weeks.
They'd come pick me up.
And around when I was two  years old,  my mom stopped dealing with my blood father  because he wanted to be in the streets, and he wanted to do-  not- when I say drugs, I mean like, weed and like be around with his friends and stuff.
And she wasn't having that around her children  at all.
So,  she eventually like moved out of his house.
She told me all the time about how  she moved out of his house in one night,  well, their house in one night,  and g- went to um, my grandmo-  where my grandmom lives.
And then my  da- RD-NAME-2, he came into my life around when I was two, so  shortly after that they started talking to each other  and um, getting to know each other.
And before them,  I have a big sister,  RD-NAME-2,  and- she's twenty one.
She- who also has a different father  than I do.
And then,  going back  to my dad, RD-NAME-2,  it's a  two more,  but- which my mom and my dad RD-NAME-2 have.
So but he's our father.
You know,  he's everybody's father.
We don't see him as a step father.
Never called him step dad.
Never-  never called him RD-NAME-2.
Except for one time when my blood father did tell me- he was like, he's not your father,  so you call him RD-NAME-2.
So I called him RD-NAME-2 one time, and I got in so much trouble  cause I called him RD-NAME-2.
He's like- my mom's like,  he takes care of you every day,  and  he's the one who's-  you're on his insurance and all this other stuff .
Right, and she was like, you're on his insurance, so that's your father.
I was like, I know, Mom.
So,  that's my father.
I had one slip up, but that is my father.
I f-  I feel like I should have had a closer relationship with him because  kind of like,  so there were t- two streets, so if you think of like, nineteenth street and twenty first street, a block away.
We lived exactly a block away,  but he would still come see me.
He will come pick me up to go to my grandparents' house, every two weeks.
So we met-  Mm-hm.
It was his parents' house.
So it was never like,  we- it- it was never like there was a  position for us not to have a good relationship,  it's just that he never really worked towards  having a g-  good relationship.
Right.
Yeah, my- my step- my step- well, my dad, yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
But he- Huh?
No, because my grandparents are really in my life,  and um- I'm really close to my grandparents so I feel like that would kind of be disrespectful to  be like, oh, I'm'a change my name, when it's someone who is a RD-NAME-1,  who's gonna- who's in my life and making me a better person.
They're the best!
I love my grandparents.
They are very very very nice people,  and they always looked out- look out for the  better interest of me and um-  I remember one time when my granddad was like-  cause he's- he's never- he's never whooped me before.
He's never like, really yelled at me before,  but one time he said he was disappointed in me and that broke me  down.
Like I was in tears, everywhere.
Sobbing, like, Mom, Granddad is mad at me.
And it- it made me feel really bad so they hold really high standards  in my life.
And they always make sure I'm doing the best that I could possibly do.
They're both still living.
My grandmom just retired last year.
So they're f-  Mm, my granddad's  sixty something.
He's like,  old sixties- older sixty something, and my grandma's young- younger sixty something.
I don't know their exact ages, but-  DC.
Uh,  well,  uh, on MLK?
On Martin Luther King Avenue?
S- Southeast side.
Yes.
They live on RD-ADDRESS-2.
The- the highs over th- the high rises over there.
You don't know?
It's okay.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Yeah, we hopped around a lot.
Um, we- we-  we lived in a house one time,  and that was when we had to move in with my grandmother  uh, because she- My- My great- it was actually my great grandmother who was my mom's  father's  mom.
Okay.
Yeah because I don't- I only knew my mom's mom, and she- I-  my step grandfather-  We're not gonna go into that.
But my step grandfather-  but um, my mom's- u- I only knew my mom's mom because my mom's dad  um, passed away before I was born.
So, yeah- I didn't- well, I didn't really kn- know that much of my mom's  family  because a lot of them, um, passed away.
And like- like, now she's really excited because she's finally gonna be a aunt.
And um, cause like, all her siblings- like, two of her siblings were murdered  when they were young.
And then she only has a- well she was a brother,  and then my other uncle, he was in jail.
And he just got out.
He's in the halfway house, so he halfway out of jail.
Woo woo.
Let's go Uncle D!
And then, uh, she has a younger sister.
So.
It was-  well it was four-  it was-  Yeah.
It was a lot of 'em.
But like her dad had different- You- woman.
So yeah.
But yeah, from what- from what we know of the family members, there's only- she only has  two siblings- no, three siblings, that are alive now-  And two that passed away.
So five.
N- Six, oh yeah.
Six.
My aunt- my aunt RD-NAME-1 which is my uncle's  uh, wife.
She's having a baby finally.
Um- February twenty second.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And she was really excited.
Like, she was jumping around the house.
Like, ah!
No, my mom was- my mom.
Yeah cause she- cause we um-  Well, so from my family's side,  I don't have  c- like first cousins around them, so we never got that cousin experience.
Like,  oh, I'm going over my cousin's house to spend the night,  and my mom was real strict about us be spending the night over people houses.
She didn't do it.
At all.
I've never the spent the night over anyone's house.
I'm seventeen.
Never had a sl- never been to a sleep over.
But-  like, that's why I love the Boys and Girls Club  because I get to go places and, oh, we in the room together!
Woo!
Let's talk about stuff and  have fun!
And then,  but no.
We- I didn't have any cousins.
So we would always go out of town.
We'd go out of town like, almost all the time, so that we can have like,  that fun experience.
So we can have something else about our childhood  to be excited about.
Cause my mom had plenty of cousins.
And she was like,  we walked everywhere,  so if we weren't in this part of Southeast,  we would walk to the other part of Southeast.
Oh like- she like, we walk in groups.
I was like, okay,  I'm not walking anywhere.
I catch the bus.
So that's a change over time.
I catch the bus everywhere.
I don't walk any-   where.
Jus- Mm.
We're five years apart.
Me and my- Three years apart.
And then I have a brother.
So,  five years apart again.
So, she- My big sister.
Kind of.
We would get- no we- w- We were kind of close, but like she cared aft- she took care of me kind of.
So she always made sure I was good and also made sure I was-  I had someone to play with.
So she took that big sister role and made it so that I had someone to play with.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I h- I had fun with everybody cause I was- I just wanted to be everybody's friend.
Yeah that's- that's all that I did.
I just- I just-  I- and I- also, my mom always said that I was- I always wanted to be with the older people.
Like I always wanted to talk to the adults cause I was talking- like, I started talking really early.
And I started- she said on my first birthday, I just got up and started walking.
So she was just like, you were very advanced for no reason.
I was just like- I always wanted to talk to people so I just talked to the kids  when I was younger or talked to my peers.
RD-NAME-2.
I just-  I didn't-  Right.
Uh- I- w-  Right.
But um, I just know-  well, I had a real bad like,  elementary school,  like, experience because I was bullied a lot in etr- elementary school.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Well I- First, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  and then I went to uh, RD-SCHOOL-5.
And then RD-SCHOOL-5 got shut down.
It got closed down to be turned into a police station  um, my  fifth grade year.
And then sixth grade, that was the year when they was putting um,  no, my fourth grade year.
That was the year that they were putting sixth grade in middle school.
So, my fifth grade year I had to go to RD-SCHOOL-3, and then-  which was in Southwest.
So, RD-SCHOOL-3 was Northeast,  and then I went to Southwest,  and then, um,  and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 for middle school.
And then I went to high school and so on.
Elementary-  Because when I was younger my mom- well, like, at first it was like, it was cool and then like,  when my big sister left,  she went to, um, middle school- when she went to middle school, cause we were always in school together,  and then when she went to middle school,  I was in school by myself,  and people didn't really like my older sister.
So then they would  take all of their energy- and my sister was really like,  bold,  and like nobody really wanted to mess with her  at that point.
So it was like,  I was like,   oh, okay.
I'm little RD-NAME-3.
And they would mess with m- they would turn their energy towards me.
So now I was like, probably like fighting all the time  in middle- in eme- in elementary school.
And then,  my mom, she cut my hair  because like my sides broke off, my edges broke off.
So she cut all my hair off  when I was in, um, elementary school, too.
So then I had to go to school.
I was also bald head  RD-NAME-3 did not have a big sister in the building anymore.
So it was a struggle,  but then as time went on, I got- I got better into school because  that's when I took up like, speaking and stuff.
So I was like I wanna speak at this event.
Can I emcee this event?
And this, that and the third.
So people like, oh, she- she- she talk at everything.
So now people were being nice to me cause I talked at everything.
Mm, yes.
I just wanted to talk, yeah.
Yes.
I was always smart.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, I don't, but my granddad does cause he was like, when the um- When I was in kindergarten, he said- he said when I was in kindergarten, he was like, you went up there, cause um,  it was like, not  kindergarten, but it was the- the pre school graduation.
And he was like,  uh, the girl didn't show up.
Like, she didn't come to graduation, whoever was supposed to do the em- like emcee.
The graduation, she didn't come!
So he was like, I went up there, and I did it anyway.
He was like, I- He was like, that- from that day, I knew  that you was just gonna keep on speaking and that was gonna be your thing  because you did it so well at such a young age.
I was like,  well,  that's what I do.
I- I talk.
I j- I just talk.
Right.
Right.
Right.
I went to three different elementary schools.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
We li- we lived  like not too far away from the school.
I don't remember the exact address, but we lived not too far away from the school so I would live there walking.
Mm-hm.
I lived- I lived- I lived in the neighborhood, and I went to the school cause that- and that's when we were living with my other grandmother.
So a lot of the times we had to move in with like  my grandparents and stuff cause they weren't well,  like they were sick.
So,  we had to move in with them from time to time and like make sure they were okay.
So.
Middle school.
Now, in middle school, that's when I lived in this area.
So I lived in um, I lived in Southeast,  and then I moved.
So I lived in Ridgecrest or Parkland.
So I went to- I went to RD-SCHOOL-4, and I'd take the bus to school, you know, every day.
And I went there from  six,  of course  from sixth to eighth grade.
And I was actually the first valedictorian of the school.
Woot woot.
Yeah.
Thank you, and um, I- I remember uh- I got- I got in my first- I got suspended for the first time when I was in um- when I was at RD-SCHOOL-4 because I fought a girl.
But I fought her all the way down the street, and that's because- but she hit me.
Like she's like, legit slapped me in my face!
Because she didn't like what I was saying.
Cause I told her I didn't like her as a human being.
And like, I just didn't wanna be around her.
I was- I was like twelve!
But I was out, you know, I was always honest with people.
It was just like, if I don't wanna be around you, I'm'a tell you that I don't want you to be in my company or like my surroundings, so.
Right.
It just- it was just- But my- but that's how my mom is.
Like, she's very honest and they just  blunt kind of.
So that's how I grew up.
But I'm- I'm- I think I'm a lot nicer than her in my bluntness and honesty.
S-  Oh, she has plenty stories.
Plenty story.
Her s- yup.
That's a interesting one.
Yup.
Yeah, in the- I got suspended for a day!
But that was because I was really-  they- they were like, I didn't ever have a problem.
Like, I don't get in trouble in school.
If I got in trouble, it was because I did something at home.
I never got in trouble at school.
I- cause I was always on honor roll,  and like, all of the teachers knew me, and they're like,  oh, can you read this?
Or something like that.
I was good!
So she was like, we cannot suspend her for more than a day because she's such a great student.
And uh,  it was just like, overturned.
She was just- and then we had a meet and- we had a parent meet,  and my mom came in the room, and she saw the girl.
She said, that's the same one that's always messing with my child!
So,  If- I've had previous engage- engagements with her.
And then um, it was so funny because when we graduated,    I was um, vale- I was valedictorian.
She was salutatorian, tied up with another person.
So, it was like, her- her mom had all the - she's like,  She didn't deserve that.
Da da da da da.
And I was like, ooh!
You're mad!
Okay.
And it was like the same thing.
Like, when we went to our eighth grade dance,  her mom had her in like, the skimpiest outfit.
It was- it was like-  That's something that you wear to the club when you're twenty five years old type outfit.
She- she's wasn't even- we weren't even fifteen.
We like thirteen, fourteen in there.
And I had on my nice little tutu dress.
I was like, cheese!
Happy birthday!
Good morning!
So it was just- I- I think it-  but she had a lot of animosity towards me,  just s-  just for being who I am.
And I think that- that goes on- that been on for like,  a lot of my life.
This goes on for a lot of my life.
Just like,  people having feelings towards me because of who I am.
And I mean- And I had to get- I mean I had to become comfortable with who I am over time.
I have become comfortable in my own skin.
So um-  Right.
So I think over time I just- I- with m-  with me becoming comfortable in who I am,  I just had to be  comfortable with  people being who they are  and being comfortable that they gonna have opinions about me.
And I can't necessarily change  what they're saying.
And the- I had to- I had to learn that from my mom cause I remember one day,  my sister said something to me, and I like broke out in tears.
And my mom was like, you better get some back- back bone because the world not gonna be that nice to you!
And I was like- ever since then, I was like, alright cool.
Well, whatchu gotta say is- that's whatchu gotta say.
But I don't necessarily have to take or receive that into  what I have.
Mm-hm.
It was over time because kids are mean.
Like, and l- And like,  you know, as you get older,  we become a adult, you- like, people sugar coat things,  and it-You like- You learn to sugar coat things, but when you're young, you're as pure as can be.
You're like- you're like,  oh I don't like you, or  you ugly.
Like, kids will tell you that you're ugly  real nice,   just, with a smile to you're ugly.
I'm like, okay.
Mean.
It's cool.
But I think just over time, like bis- people, just al- being mean to me,  and I had to understand that like, not everyone's gonna like me for who I am  or like what I do.
So I might just have to get used to it,  and be who I am because  I've- and I have to love who I am as a human being too.
So I think that's what also came with like, Girls Only Club.
When I started Girls Only Club, it was like, I understand that you have- like I'm teaching young women that you have to understand that not everyone's gonna like you for what you look like, what you say out your mouth,  but you have to be true to who you are  because people will say,  that's not you to be like that.
Even if you are  like, the meanest person in the world, once you try to be nice, oh you're being fake because that's not  you.
Regardless.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So, I came to the Boys and Girls Club because uh, at school,  they was telling that you have to go out and find  community service.
I'm in eighth grade.
I'm like, okay.
Community service.
Whatever.
So not even eighth grade- No I wasn't even in eighth grade.
I was- I was in the seventh grade.
I was in seventh g- Everybody in the school had to do community service.
So I actually came down here with three of my friends- with three uh, people- well, they were my friends-   With three people that I was close with in um, seventh grade at my school.
And we were just like coming down here, and we aksed, do y'all have like, community service?
Can we come down here and do community service?
So over time I was just like, I'll come down here on like,  a Tuesday and a Thursday.
I'll come down here  and help with the ch- with the younger children,  and um, help them with their homework and stuff.
And then over time, they were like, oh we can invite you into the Teen Center.
So then that's when I s- actually started coming to the Boys and Girls Club every day  cause I lived about five minutes away.
It was a- it was walking distance, so it was like, hm, I'll walk down there every day after school.
So- cause it was also the after ks- after care program,  so I just came to the Boys and Girls Club, over time just started coming and coming,  just being here every day.
I- the-  the programs  and the people around me.
People being- I think people being nice to me.
And people um, treating me as family.
That's what kept me- That's what kept me around cause it was like- I wasn't-  not that I wasn't getting it at home, it was just like,  u- people weren't-  at home, it wasn't like,  people always open and listen to what I was saying  all the time.
So like,  that's when I started with my- with like, my  suicide and all that stuff.
Like my- my- my cl- my skeleton in my closet.
That stuff.
So um,  that's when I started that stuff,  and then like, it was like, coming down here,  it was showing me that there is other things bigger,  that like, the little problems that you have in your bedroom, in the four walls  of your room- It was like, there- there's hope.
And like, there's- there's reasons to be happy,  you know?
So I- it g- it gave me a  place to be and a place to feel like  I was comfortable.
I reme- I remember coming in here for the first day.
I remember the first day.
So I walked in here,  and um, I s- I went to the front desk,  and I said, uh, do you have someone here that  can tell me about community service?
And you know, I'm young.
I- I don't really know what I'm talking about, but I was like, do y'all have community service here?
And   they sent me into the Teen Center, and Miss RD-NAME-2 was still working here,  so that was- that was like,   five years ago!
Five years ago,  when Miss RD-NAME-2 was still working he-  so she came to me with a big old smile,  Hi, who are you?
Welcome.
And then,  she started talking to me about what- what they have there,  and then they took me on my first trip, like a week later, for Keystone.
And I wasn't even old enough to be in Keystone yet, but they still took me on the trip  cause she was like, your maturity level  is really high, so I went.
We went  to do a community service project, uh, on the National Mall.
Yup, we did.
Yeah, I remember that.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, probably a- like a month after.
W- Like, when I started really knowing people, like when I really starting to get to know people.
And then I started seeing people on the bus and the train, like on my way to and from school.
And then like, when they would speak to me, I was like, oh,  hey.
I remember you.
You coming to the Club today?
Yeah I'm coming to the Club today!
Right.
Right!
Yup!
I see you there!
Later on.
Four o'clock.
See ya.
Pretty much everybody that's still here.
Um,  and it- it's funny because I remember um, me and n- girl, RD-NAME-3-  Well we- we are like the closest.
Like, we call each other sisters now, but when we first- when I first started coming down here,  I remember every day, we would get into a argument.
Every single day.
Like she would walk in the door  and something that happen!
Like, we don't even know why were arguing,  and that's why we would say today- we're like, I don't even know why were arguing back then.
Like why were we arguing?
Like she would walk in the door  and like, maybe I'll say something smart or she'll say something smart.
And we'd just be going back and forth.
I think through Keystone,  through Keystone.
We had to be around each other a lot more, and we had to do like, more um, leadership building things,  and more team work things.
So I- I think like going through that was like,   she's actually a cool person.
We'll be nice to each other,  type thing.
RD-NAME-3-  She is a graduate.
She graduate this year.
Every- all of my friends  graduated!
Yes, all of my friends graduated this year.
And it's gonna- it's gonna be so hard.
I think I'm'a still come down here now,  of course.
Definitely I will, because I'm  Youth of the Year.
It might make sense-   It might make sense for me to come down here all the time.
And also, um, I think my- my main focus for next year is for me  to help the-  the- um, like the ninth graders,  to transition,  for the younger people to transition into the Boys and Girls Club  and into the Teens Center for my senior year.
And like, make Keystone the best Keystone there ever was this year.
So kind of like going out with a bang type thing  cause I- I have to- I'm- I'm- I'm president.
I'm presidente I'm el pr- I am going to Dallas.
Oh, for uh- RD-NAME-2 is going to Dallas because she's part of the, um,  steering committee.
Because she really wanted it.
She really wanted it.
She really really wanted it.
And I'm like,  I have to do anyway, so that works too, RD-NAME-2.
You can go.
She- she-  she is secretary, but she basically is vice president.
But sh- she's like my right hand man for  everything.
When like, we got a problem with keystone.
Let me talk to her about it.
And she is the person- she's the go to person basically.
I've been-  I-  It- it- one year, and then I'm going into my second term.
My s- my second term.
Right .
Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
Right.
Okay.
So, uh,  that was when our branch director was a man named Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
He stayed for like a month or two.
He was not here that long.
E- Exactly!
Right.
He was our- he was our branch director, Mr.
RD-NAME-2, and he-  he had a panel of um, youth,  and he like, y'all gonna interview Mr.
RD-NAME-2 to be your new team director.
It was- it was- we only interviewed him.
That's the only person that I remember that I remember inter- interviewing.
But um, I r-  I'll never forget , he came in here with a  um- with a orange and green  and white  like,  checkered shirt type thing.
And he had a orange tux, and like, khaki pants.
I will never forget his outfit,  never in my life.
But I remember us talking to him and going back and forth  like with the conversation,  and he was like, a- and I was asking him questions and  he was asking us questions.
I'm like,  but what can you really do for us?
And he was like, I can make it the best experience that you could ever have.
And I was like,  he got it.
And I was like, and it- that's- and then I kind of asked him like, what are your best traits?
You know, the  typical questions.
And he was like- and I think what  mainly got me was that he was like, I'm a listener.
I'm a person that listens, and I feel like  for all of my life, it never been like, that person that was like, I'm'a listen to you.
So when Mr.
RD-NAME-2 said,  I will listen to you.
Like- Yeah.
Yeah, I was done.
Yeah!
Yeah, it was like- And that's- that's what we all need.
That's what we all need is youth, and as people period.
Don't matter how- what age you are,  it's like if you have that one person that would listen to what's coming out of your mouth,  actually give you a solution to your problem,  that's that person.
Period.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Definitely.
Yes.
Yeah.
Right.
Cause I- that's how I am though.
If- I've always been like that.
It's like,  if somebody aks me to do something,  I'll do it.
Pff.
It's ju-  Even if I don't feel like doing it, but I think that's why I also have to- that's why I also teach people  to um, have that time for yourself cause not a lot of people have that time for themselves.
So.
Mm-hm.
I started at RD-SCHOOL-4.
Okay, because my- so we moved because my mom was sick and tired of our neighborhood,  so-  Like, every day we would come home and they'll be people like, smoking  and drinking in front of our apartment building.
Mm-hm.
When I was in Parkland.
So they'll be people smoking and drinking like,  in front of our building.
Loud, boisterous, cursing and  all that stuff, and that's not what she wanted to raise her children in.
So we eventually moved to- that's when we moved to Maryland to a more quieter neighborhood,  but I still come to the Boys and Girls club every day.
I still catch that bus and that train here   every single day,  but uh, I love being at the Boy-  Uh-huh.
Oh, I don't know what they doing.
Okay.
Um, yeah, so I started at RD-SCHOOL-4  my ninth grade and tenth grade- I was still- I was still living in DC, um, ninth grade, and then like,  probably  the last quarter- like, the fourth quarter  of tenth grade, I moved- that's when we moved.
So,  ninth grade, I was in DC.
Tenth grade  I was in DC.
I love RD-SCHOOL-4  to the death of me.
Mm-hm.
So RD-SCHOOL-4 um, is basically- when they say RD-SCHOOL-4 is not a school without walls.
It's kind of like a glass building.
But it's connected to another building,  and um, basically when they say RD-SCHOOL-4, it's no limits.
It's basically no limits to what your child can learn.
No limits to what your child can do.
Cause they had the college courses there.
They- we left school for less we wore regular clothes.
They- it was the  best experience I could have had.
It was- it- um- George- like, Georgetown, like Northwest DC Foggy Bottom area.
Yup.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
I loved going there and the- especially the education, the way that they challenged me  with my education.
Even though I didn't do that well my tenth grade year, but I didn't do that well my tenth grade year because I lost that passion for my education  basically.
I showed that I can do it.
My ninth grade year I ended school with a three point two.
My tenth grade year I messed up, and I think that was kind of also giving my mother the extra push to say,  mm, I'm taking her out of this school.
Because I wasn't doing my best there  too, so.
I- Yeah I-  I felt that like, that's what it was, and I think that my mom was like, oh it's because you were cheering and  you were playing all these sports.
It wasn't that.
It was just that I- I- I had the ability to do what  ever I need to.
I know I do.
I just didn't feel like doing it.
And it was just- and like, I kn- li- I know myself  for who I am.
I just did not  feel like  doing it.
Like I was doing- I feel like I was doing the bare minimum.
I was doing enough to pass.
Cause I didn't.
My favorite- my favorite experience was when I was cheering.
W- well, outside, for c- extra curric-  No  it was not!
Watch my mouth.
Poetry club  was the best thing I have ever put myself into.
I wa- I'm crazy.
Why I say cheering?
I think   th- it's poetry club and cheering  cause cheering, that's when I actually got into doing sports and stuff.
And I was like,  oh, I can do a split, or I could tumble, I could do this flip.
I was excited.
And I was the- And I was the loudest on the team!
So, I-  Right.
So I started um- I started-  I started all the cheers.
Like I started majority of the cheers.
I was like, leading everybody into the room.
I was ready.
I was in it.
But um, poetry club,  that's when I got to perform in front of the school,  and that's when people would come to me be like,  dang, you- you nice.
You- you got words.
You,  you know, you good.
And I was like,  Ah!
Really!
That's me!
So, uh- and I think that's when I really really dove into like,  my creative  expression with my words,  and like, when I knew I could tr- I could change someone.
So, when we did open mics,  and I know I be up there reciting my poem,  and I'll be crying and  empty all emotional, and then I look- and then I open my eyes, and I look in into the audience,  and with like my clo- my friends out there like,    Boo hoo, crying .
And it's kind of like, dang.
I can transform people with my words.
So I think that was definitely my best experience,  but then also the hype from cheerleading.
Also, the family aspect and people pushing you  to do your best  was the best.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yeah.
We um- we just-  actually  we found our apartment  when  I was getting d- after I got my hair done.
I went to go get my hair done, and we drove around the corner, and my mom saw these apartments, and she's like, oh,  these are nice.
So she goes in there,  and she like, figures everything out.
And she's like, mm,  I'm moving here.
And then like, a couple weeks later, we were moving out.
And mom  was like, oh wow.
If I woulda never got my hair done, we probably woulda never moved over there.
Ooh.
It's all of us.
And my older sister, too.
Uh-huh.
Cause my mom said she not putting my sister out.
She said she- Mm-hm.
It's three bedrooms.
I've never had my own room,  never in my life.
Oh.
Right!
Right!
Right!
See?
Be humble.
Be humble.
Right.
Yup, but u-  I never had my own room.
I always- well, when we were younger, I used to- my s- big sister had her own room,  cause that's when she was in her teenage stage.
My big sister had her own room, and then I shared a room with my little sister, my little brother and me.
And I.
And I.
And then, we- when we moved to  Ridgecrest now-  yeah, when we woul- we always- in the-  Well, what am I saying?
So when I moved to Ridgecrest, it was always two and two.
My little brother and my little sister, then me and my older sister.
And then when we moved again, it still me and my older sister.
My little brother and my little sister,  and then my mom and dad.
And they're f- currently trying to get a house  by the time I go into my um,  my freshman year of college.
So, gonna be moving- Right, and I'll be driving like,  with a full license  by then, so  I'll be good.
I'll still be able to come to the Boys and Girls Club.
Right.
I just got my- I got my learner's- got my learner's- and my mom and dad, they let me drive- they-  This is the only destination.
The Boys and Girls Club is the only destination I've driven to  since I've had my learners permit.
It's like fifteen minutes, yeah.
Yeah.
And then it's like- it's like, the Parkway, and then they- they put me on the Parkway, so.
Yup!
That was the first thing that they did.
They were like, okay,  get in the car.
Seatbelt on.
Let's go.
So-  And that's another thing.
I got my license in DC because in Maryland you have to go through like, driving school.
No.
You have to have a D- DC address.
Mm-hm.
I used-  No.
I used my grandparent's ad- well, not my grandparents.
My s-  My father's  parents.
My other father- my step dad.
Okay, I'll say that.
Yes.
I use his- his granddad- his grandfather's address.
One one four RD-ADDRESS-2.
It's up the street.
Yup.
What?
And you said, let me w- no, it's six months!
It's only six months.
You have to do- you have to t- well, your parents have to train you like, driving and stuff for six months.
And then, you can  go get your provisionals.
Uh-uh!
I'm- Oh, I don't- I don't know.
Mm-hm.
I don't think it's the same now.
That's why we trying to put me on my grandparent's insurance.
Cause insurance is expensive for a seventeen year old driver.
Oh, for real?
That-  Oh, yeah.
That makes sense.
Oh, wow.
Alright.
Right.
Yeah.
Mm.
Uh-huh.
I want a Volkswagen Beetle.
No, but she- she works for um- it's like different Toyotas,  different  dealerships.
They c- they have multiple different types of cars.
So they might sell a Kia or something like that or a Jeep.
I-  I wouldn't mind having one of those.
I just want a small car.
I don't want anything big.
Right.
I will not.
I shall not.
I shall- Right.
I will not.
And it- and it-  But also with me living in DC for so long,  when I- like, when I went to Maryland- when I got into Maryland, it's m- and like- busses in DC come like,  every fifteen minutes.
We're good.
Busses in Maryland come once an hour!
So like, when I come to work and stuff- when I come to the Boys and Girls Club,  um, I have to be there- I have to catch the  hour earlier bus because if I miss that bus,  then I would be okay  because the bus don't come for a hour.
It's crazy.
Like, for me, Maryland is like the country.
It's- it's no- it's not city like.
I like seeing all these people, hey!
How you doing?
You know?
Let's get to the train station.
Let's walk here.
Let's do-  Maryland is not my thing.
That's why I'm always in DC, I sleep in Maryland.
That's- that's h- that's how I f- that's what I feel like.
I sleep in Maryland, but I live in DC.
No.
No.
You're not from DC  because you- you don't have the full DC experience.
Like if you-  If your parents drive you everywhere that you go, you do not have the full DC experience.
You need to catch the train everywhere you go.
If you haven't been to the Smithsonian museums every single year  of your schooling, then you do not have the full DC experience.
If you have not heard No Child Left Behind  and put it all over the school board,  you have not  had the DC experience.
At all.
Like-  Uh, let's- let's-  let's see.
When you get to carry out your carry out, you ha- But- but Maryland- Maryland, M- Mm.
It's chicken wings, Mumbo sauce, you know.
Fried rice or rice.
I like fried rice.
I get fried rice.
But yeah, Mumbo sauce,  and th- that's what- that's what's so funny when people outside of DC say, I don't know what- What's the Mumbo sauce?
I'm like, it's Mumbo sauce.
It- But you don't know how to explain it.
It's kind of like- I don't know!
No, it's n- It's n- It's good.
That's all I can say is good.
I don't know.
The carry out!
Any carry out.
It's just- it's- it-   Majority of the carry outs, it taste the same.
So  it's-  the- the Oriental food.
It's them.
They know how to make it.
Ev- r- t-  We don't know how to make it, but they know how to make it.
So we eat it.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
You're gonna get barbecue sauce.
You're not gonna get Mumbo sauce.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Do you- y- d- just- If you gonna try it, y- go ahead and first start it with your fries and then you gonna wanna put it on everything.
Try it on your fries.
Yeah.
Mm.
It's good.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yes, uh, for eleven- for eleventh grade.
I- It was horrible  actually.
Because it was kind of like, I was going from a very lenient environment where I could be an individual to a school where it's all ROTC- JROTC based,  where I have to wear this green uniform  every day and these base that hurt my feet.
Those shoes  hurt.
And then now- with my- and then my hair is like extra long so now my hair has to be above my collar,  got to wear a ponytail every single day.
And then the kids like at the school, they didn't really care about their education.
Like, at RD-SCHOOL-1, everyone cared about their education.
I went to study groups.
They don't do that at RD-SCHOOL-3.
They don't go to study groups.
The- the  education is kind of like mediocre there.
So, it's kind of-  it w- It was just a real bad transition.
And also,  like,  now with me going into my senior year,  I don't have those programs like-  In DC, they have a lot of programs set up for children can have scholarships.
In Maryland, they don't really have that.
D- So, that's why I stay in the Boys and Girls Club because I can get so many scholarships  from the Boys and Girls Club.
At school,  I can-  I have not heard about one  scholarship in my junior year.
And that's the same thing  with um, college visits.
When- when I was at RD-SCHOOL-4,  any college that came to visit, you would just had to sign up.
It didn't matter what grade you were in.
At RD-SCHOOL-3, you ha- you were in the twelfth grade,  shouldn't you already know what colleges you have in mind by the twelfth grade.
It did- did not make sense to me  at  all.
My SAT, yes I have.
I have to take it again.
And that's because- And then that's also where I was at fault at  because um,  my-  They set me up  to have my SAT prep class after I took my SAT.
I took my SAT in the first semester of school,  and then I took my SAT prep class in the second semester of school.
That doesn't make- That doesn't make sense at all.
I- And then, I would have known  maybe  if- RD-NAME-3 coulda got a higher score on her SAT if I didn't know I  shouldn't answer all of the questions  on the SAT.
I answered all of the questions.
I still got a good score.
I got a uh- I got a fourteen fifty.
And that's basically what a average score, with people not checking all the bubbles.
So I probably coulda got way higher, if I would have known  not to check a- Right.
I'm- I'm taking it in Oc- in October.
Yeah.
R-  That's- I can- I can res- report either score.
I feel like- And that's also where I'm kind of nervous at.
I feel like- Cause a lot of people tell me, you're okay.
You're gonna be okay cause you're-  You have like, Youth of the Year status.
You have like a lot of community service and this, that and the third.
I'm like, but y'all, you has- you have to also factor in my grades.
My grades are okay.
I have like-  I have a three point- I'm three point oh student  now because I messed up my tenth grade year.
And now I have to make up for that my eleventh and twelfth grade year- Well, the beginning of my twelfth grade year to make sure that I can get into a school.
Unintelligible  The school.
Temple University.
Temple University.
Ah!
Right.
Yup.
So- Yes, um, University of North Carolina, Greensboro.
That's my- that's my s- that's my second- that's my second choice.
And then like, my way way back up schools is like, Morgan,  and then like, University of Del- and like, Del- Delaware.
Right.
Cause it's-  it's something- it got- Something's  gotta give.
Yeah, I- I feel like- And that's- and that- When everyone says that to me, I feel like I'm gonna be fine, but like- Yeah.
Somebody-  Somebody said that to me.
My grandma was like- My- Well my-  uh,  RD-NAME-2's- his- his mom.
She was like, didn't I hear you talking about you going to Yale.
And I was like, Grandma, I'm black.
And the- I said that!
And she was like - And I- I had to f- I had to think about when I sa- I was like, ooh.
She was like, at least you know who you are.
I was like, mm.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just- And I also think because like,  with my scholarships,  like, no one is my family-  in my immediate family, like my dad,  my um,  RD-NAME-2, he did- he didn't graduate  from high school.
But that was because he was doing other things that weren't really- But he's smart.
He's a smart man,  but he was like, he was bored in school,  and they were just doing the same thing over and over every year.
And it wasn't really progressing.
So, and then my mom  who had a child at fifteen,  she didn't finish school.
But then she went back- She went back to school  and got her GED- Well she went-  I-  Yeah, she got her GED,  and then she went on to try to- She got her Associate's degree  I think in Communications.
But no one has got like a Master's degree.
My older sister,  she um, went to Medtech,  and she d- Like she doesn't have- Like she didn't go to a university,  a college.
So I want to be that one, and I think that- ever since- everyone before me  hasn't really had that experience.
Like, my grandparents, great grandparents,  nobody.
So it's like, I wanna be that one to show my younger siblings that you can do it.
Or even my big sister, if she wanted to go back to school.
And the- my dad, and I try to kind of encourage my dad.
Like, you need to go back to school and get your um,   get- and get your d- d- get your GED at least.
But I mean he does-  He kind of does really well at his job, and he has a good position at his job, so he doesn't really feel like he needs to go back, you know?
But also, sometimes, w- we kind of teach him still  when we try to get him to help my brother and sister with their homework,  and he's like, I can't really help them because I don't really know- I'm like, kind of, that's because you're kind of older now.
You don't really remember everything, so we not gonna say that it's because you didn't graduate.
It's because you don't remember.
So I can help them  in that aspect too, so.
Right.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Yeah, and that- and that's the same thing like, cause my older sister, she- she was gonna go- she was gonna go to Clark Atlanta, but it was some things that were like, messed up with her room and board,  and she never went- She never went to school.
She had plenty scholarships.
She had plenty thing-  And I think that's where kind of I'm at fault because I'm not in those programs,  like the achievements programs  where people basically get their  t- tuition paid off.
And it's kind of like,  people like me are at fault because  we wanna go to school.
I wanna do these things.
I wanna work hard in order  to get to a university.
I wanna work for what I-  what I want to earn.
But it's some people who are just getting stuff handed to them,  and they're not really going to use it.
N- Because I don't- Like, I'm not in DC anymore.
I feel like that's my- Huh?
It's not- it's not- Yeah, you're right.
Right.
Yeah, but um,  I feel like because they have- DC has so many programs  and so many different things for their students.
It's so much set up for their students, so that they can be successful,  and now that I'm in Maryland, it's kind of like,    I got the short end of the stick, and I have to work like,  extra extra tra-  extra hard.
Because I want it,  so I'm gonna work for whatever I need to do- I mean do whatever I need to do, so I can progress in life.
But it's kind of like, it could have been easier for me type thing.
No.
My mom makes too much money.
And then my dad also makes too much money.
I have-  U- Yeah.
I have a tw- I'm- FAFSA is not gonna give me anything .
Like I-  I promise you.
Like- Right.
I'm not getting- I'm not gonna get any money.
Mm-hm.
But then, I'm probably gonna use that DC address, so that I can get in state tuition.
So- Right.
Um,  it started when I was in like,  sixth or seventh grade.
I don't- My-   My- Actually my first poem b- goes back to two thousand eleven.
So, I was-   I'm seventeen.
Math!
Right.
So four- Some years ago- Yeah, so- So it was like two thousand eleven.
Or may- it might have been- it might have been further back.
I don't really remember.
But I still have my first poem book from when I first started writing,  and it was because I was  in a dark place,  and like,  I remember we were doing like, journaling- We were like, journaling in school.
Like kind of doing like, journals of- like how our day was going.
Kind of like the freedom writers type thing.
So, we were kind of like doing this-  that type stuff,  and um,  over time, I was just like, mm, I- I write well.
It's cool for me.
So then I started going to my room like, when I was going through something- Like when I was feeling bad or down,  I'd just write it out.
And it might- it might- it might be deep.
It might not.
It might just be  a journaling  entry,  how I'm feeling a certain day.
But that's how I started writing.
And then over time, like I started letting my teacher- Like my d- um,  my  English teacher, I started letting her read  what I was writing.
And she was like, you're really good with words.
Keep writing.
And that's what she said- keep writing.
So I'm'a keep  writing,  and I just started writing poetry, and it just  kept going and going and going.
And I think it just-  it just came kind of naturally.
It was just like a thing that I did.
It- Because- because I wanted to write, and I was like, I wanna be on the stage and say everything, say my- like, speak my words in front of people.
We perform at every um- At every s- assembly,  we would do a piece.
We would do a big piece  with all of us.
Uh,  our-  That I've written or for school?
Uh,  w- woo.
Actually,  um, the- my appreciate  poem.
I feel like that's one of m-  my-  Cause it's not sad, and it's from a  place where like,  it was heartfelt.
It's not sad,  and it's not about strife or  hardship.
It's about me appreciating everything that I've been through and everything that  everyone around me has shown me,  so I could become the person that I am today.
Youth of the Year.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Um- Uh,  so it starts off,  appreciate the calmness.
Appreciate  the breath before the mic before they reveal themselves to the world.
Open like wounds,  spread open like caskets.
Appreciate  the words.
Um,  I don't- Dang, I'm forgetting it.
And I remember I go into,  appreciate the eyes,  the way that my mother looks at my father to tells him that she is okay.
They know each other's stories.
Appreciate the love.
And um, then it goes on to, appreciate the people  that  say that they're okay to hide their tears in the ducts of their eyes.
Have you ever seen a t- catastrophe happening in someone,  but blink to see if they see the same in you?
Like, I'm just skipping around, but I remember um, and like, p- appreciate our lives, and appreciate  the people that tell you that you wouldn't get this- that you wouldn't get this far.
Um, appreciate the fight because it only makes your story  way more worth telling,  so.
Yeah, I did it.
Mm-hm.
Um,  they're the window to the soul!
They're a window to the soul.
Yeah.
So that's like the same- Like when I um- I had pain filled eyes with a nothing wrong smile, a young girl who did not love herself.
So I think like,  um, people in general-  And l-  It's crazy how I'm seventeen and like, all this is coming out of my mouth.
But um,  I feel like just people in general, they always like-  People always smiling.
People are always  like,  I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
When you look at somebody's eyes, you can see them tired.
You can see them sad.
And you can see like,  maybe I was talking right now,  but you will never know in like a few more seconds I might break down.
But you could see that in my eyes first.
Yup.
Right.
Right.
Oh, um,  My brother was aksed in a prompt the other day what he wanted to be when he grew up.
I saw the gears working in his mind to have the greatest answer that ever was.
My brother looked at me, and said, You know what RD-NAME-2?
I want to be alive.
It's sad that already my brother believes that his life will come to a end  well before it even started.
No doctor, no football player, no firefighter.
Just alive.
He just wants to be able to breathe the air that peo-  that people play with so effortlessly.
He definitely doesn't wanna be the next  'I just saw him about a week ago' type boy.
I looked at him, and I said, 'Man,  you will be.'  But I wonder if he could decode the Morse code in my voice saying, 'Dang,  I wonder if you'll be alive, too.'  But we all know that these questions come along too often in young African American young men lives.
We all know  that they're all put on the pedestal  of disappointment well before they're put on the pedestal of success.
Yeah.
I already- I wr- I wrote it- Yeah.
I-  I- Yeah.
I wrote it- Yeah, cause it- it was real- it was real life.
It was real life.
Cause I was just helping him with his homework,  and my man's like, I wanna be alive.
And I'm like, what?
What do you mean?
It was before that.
It was before that.
It was before that.
Mm-mm.
It was like- It was like, in the middle.
It was like, in the middle.
Yeah, but it was just- it was just crazy.
Like, before all of that- the stuff did happen- It's just sad that my brother- He's eleven years  old,  and he's not even really into the streets.
Like, he- he's not even into the streets, but he's just like,  It's a possibility  that something will happen to me,  of me just being a young African American young man.
And it's cra- You're eleven years old, man!
Play some video games or something.
Get on your computer.
Y-  Go on Youtube or something like,  that should not be what you're worrying about.
Your life- You should be enjoying your life at this point in your life.
Right.