Washington DC.
Congress Heights.
Yes.
Uh,  up the street.
I would say- yeah.
No.
Uh, when I was three I m- moved to Pennsylvania.
Uh, for a year.
I'm a- I'm a graduate.
RD-SCHOOL-6.
Uh,  I want to-  I'm  going to pursue  IT.
And I'm'a start a, uh,  a non-profit  program  called Big Brother.
It's bas- it's basically from ages six to  twenty-five, showing  that  all young black men shouldn't  go to the streets  they first answer.
Or they first try.
So basically it is  a mentoring program  from,  you would be in the mentoring program from six to eighteen-  ages six  to  eighteen,  then from eighteen  to twenty five you have the chance to be a mentor.
Uh-huh.
And one- And once you in college we will try to do  uh, a scholarship.
For all your years.
As long as you still participate in the program.
Yeah I'm gonna start from  DMV area.
DC.
Perhaps.
Uh, my mom  she's a security guard.
And my dad  is a maintenance worker.
Washington DC.
I mean my mom- my mom was Washington D- I think my dad was North Carolina.
Uh, well,  basically  as of today, Congress Heights has lost in  a month  I would say three weeks we had lost two,  we had two killings there,  as of right now.
But growing up in Congress Heights it was-  it was fun  but it was difficult  cause it was still  a  neighborhood against neighborhood  type of  beef and  I n- my  parents grew up around there so I was  pretty- I was safe but I wasn't safe.
Uh, I had began before the street life for- to age fourteen  because of the situations that happened around there.
Uh,  my grandmother  was a alcoholic.
She's uh, clean now for about  three- three years now.
And my mom  raised us-  raised me and my three brothers  as a single parent.
My dad was locked up for seven years.
Uh- I'm the oldest.
Uh, RD-NAME-2  he's  twelve,  RD-NAME-2 is ten.
Yeah.
Mm.
Um, I was scared,  I'm still am,  because  my  cousin got killed  in front of my house.
Yeah.
He got killed,  he got shot seven times.
My uncle got killed  in the same place.
It's-  it was-  it's hard  growing up  around there it's hard growing up in any  DC neighborhood  because you don't know  what's gonna happen.
You have to live-  you have to live day by day  in  terror.
Like,  every person you see they will say, be safe before the end of a conversation.
That shouldn't be happening.
Because  the way our generation is,  it's  more the streets and  peer pressure  that gets to a lot of us.
And  like,  when I talk to my grandfather about it- what's happening,  he said back when they used to be kids the neighborhood used to watch k-  watch you.
Like, somebody else parent can get on you.
And now it's not like that, if somebody else parent get  to you  it's gonna be another altercation  that's trying to solve that first altercation.
Yeah.
She moved out my grandma house at f-  at the age of fourteen,  got pregnant with me at sixteen.
So it was hard.
She had it hard, sh- she still do.
I just wanna help her now  cause I'm old enough to understand what's going on now.
And help my little brothers, that's why I wanna start this program.
Uh, no,  my- me and my cousin graduated this-  this year.
My little cousin.
Yeah.
No.
Uh,  not as of right now but I hope to.
Yeah I'm'a do IT.
I know, I wanna do uh, the-  some computers.
It's like, I wanna work at- no, like I just wanna do everything.
Yeah.
In the school I was doing- I was in the uh,  computer science class so I learned how to do coding so  that really got me interested in it.
Oh yeah.
I'm allowed to go in other neighborhoods because my family's mostly  spread out through DC, so.
Yeah.
It's different but it's  still the same, it's not-  The environment different,  the way it look is different but  in general it's still the same.
Like you still have to watch over your shoulder.
The people you grew up with, you still gotta be careful who your friends is.
Cause like,  DC is a cycle  and I don't think it's gonna break.
It's like,  if you grew up with somebody  and y'all get into it,  or if you more successful than them, you have to watch out.
Maybe they might try and rob you or they probably try to kill you,  or stuff like that.
Like, I don't think  that cycle's gonna break.
Cause I don't-  everybody wants the same goal but nobody else trying to reach it.
Mm.
Yeah.
It's- well,  it's a hood on hood situation.
Like this neighborhood  I guess Parkland is  beefing with a hood that's r- literally right down the street.
Twenty second  is literally-  only thing that separate 'em is the Boys and Girls Club  and these row houses- town houses.
Other than that  it's basically  nothing that separates them.
It's either you-  you get jumped,  you get shot at  or you get-  you get robbed.
It's just a lot of stuff can happen.
Like I heard people got kidnapped.
It just a lot.
It's mostly one, it's mostly one.
It's uh- some of it's majority Parkland but  it's people from my neighborhood who comes down here.
And my cousin  she's from-  I mean she's don't really claim nothing  but  she's uh, Forestville she comes down here.
It's like,  a mixture.
But  But I say live it like,  going around South Forestville is different you can see it's  different.
Because  it's nothing, it's a lot of things that separate  neighborhoods.
Like I don't live out there  personally I don't know what happens but  when I go out there it's like you feel more safe.
Other than getting dropped off at your house or-  or your neighborhood wondering like,  what's gonna happen if I get out the car.
Like-  s- stuff like that.
Yeah.
When you in fear  or when you scared you do  things that you usually wouldn't do.
Like,  I saw people who got bullied all they life and now  they carry guns  just-    they're just being scared.
Yeah.
I say  beginning of the summertime.
This summer.
Seeing people just  I say  drop like flies like  just dying left and right.
Or  I think, oh what if I get locked up for being  in the wrong place at the wrong time or hanging with the wrong people.
That's why I really come down here to get away from everything.
That's like I got people down here I can talk to.
That's really what my  program is around like,  if you don't  feel safe at home or if you have something going on at home that you really don't wanna talk about  then you have someone to talk to.
Yeah.
Well,  I had had AAU practice down here.
I used to told- I used to tell RD-NAME-4 I'm'a come down here, I'm'a come down here and stay.
So one day he locked me out the gym  and he made me call my mom and signed me up  for me to come down here.
And  ever since that day I been coming down here.
Non stop.
Say like three years ago.
Mm-hm.
Uh, my senior year  cause I had a lot  like-  I had a lot more opportunities  like  the three years has been a way  different change  with me.
Uh, the first year I was really-  in basketball like I was kind of hanging outside later than what I usually do.
Uh,  my second year me coming down here  uh, my grades started getting better.
My third year, like my grades got better,  I went in  more opportunities  like  my mindset changed  as- when I hit eighteen  as of when I was  younger.
Fourteen, f-  bef- between fourteen and eighteen, I'm  a totally different person.
I say  me getting tired of it like  seeing my cousin get locked up,  come home and get locked up.
Or come down here,  seeing RD-NAME-4  or just coming down here period.
It's just seeing like how happy the kids is when they see me.
Like  it just changed me.
Yeah.
We-  uh, well my cousin RD-NAME-3  my little cousin RD-NAME-3  she  was in the- going to the program,  and RD-NAME-4 aksed me  do I wanna go to the program.
Was like, yeah sure,  but I didn't know if he was gonna be gone  from Wednesday to Saturday I thought it was a one day thing.
So when I went there  and it was new for me,  I had dressed in business casual I really wasn't-  I'm not used to dressing up.
Uh, Uh,  I d- it was not like  when I dress like that I like,  I like it now like I can go to a store like,  oh I can come back and buy this.
But  the program is basically  it's a leadership program  about your dream like,  what you want to do  to start  or  not start  yeah start within your community like if you got drug problem if you got  a high  rape  rate  uh, thing  in your neighborhood,  it's-  like, it shows you  what steps you can do  and they show you  important people like  I met a lot of democrats and republicans.
So that really changed it  from  Congress Heights to how I start.
They showed- they-  t-  it's different telling you-  telling-  it's different from people telling you what they been through and see how they is now.
So it was really- Uh, I'll say  touching story I had was  this du-  RD-NAME-2  he was the f- he was the coolest dude I met.
Because he was- he's  uh,  what you call it when you run your own business?
Uh,  architect.
No not an architect.
I forgot what it's called when you ha- Yeah he's a entrepreneur.
And he said he made his first  company- he f- made his first million and run this company  in six months.
Then he said like  last year- last month he made- he j-  he just  Ow-  they-   fourteen million.
So it was like,  that's-  I'm not used to hearing those numbers.
So it was like new I was like, mister you a millionaire,  you could be doing something important  owing  something you can be anywhere else but you decided to talk to us and that really did change me.
Right.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, I say in my neighborhood I know a lot of people  and  I know a lot of older people  cause my family grew up like  I can get a event started and I can have a lot of people come out.
And since I'm  from  like, the young age I can get  a lot of  my people I hang with  to come out  and bring they friends.
It just-  I'll say Congress Heights growing up there is uh,  it's a good thing  that I can s-  do a program or do something that  a lot of people  do  but it's a bad thing because  I have to watch my back constantly.
Like that's the  only  bad thing about it.
Uh, twelve.
Uh, my first time getting jumped for being from that neighborhood.
Me and my best friend.
Yeah,  walking from Congress Heights station and going home.
And  yeah.
And then getting jumped  for being from that hood-  that neighborhood.
Just- they was like, uh, where you guys- where y'all from?
That's what a lot of  DC people say.
We was like, we from Congress Heights, and they was like,  oh we beefing with them,  and they jumped us.
Yeah.
Yeah beat us up.
Rob-  robbed us.
Took our cell phones,  we was twelve and they had to been like,  at least like sixteen.
I would say about like seven.
Yeah.
So that's when we had like-  that's when we started hanging out  with older people like,  we would be hanging with a certain crowd  it won't happen again.
Made me feel safe.
So yeah.
Uh, I went to RD-SCHOOL-5 RD-SCHOOL-4 Elementary School.
Uh, I'll say you know where the new  Eagle Academy at  on Wheeler Road?
Is that Wheeler Road?
Yeah, Wheeler Road.
Yeah.
Well,  it was old McGoney.
Well, RD-SCHOOL-4 now is a Somerset.
It's a middle school now.
Building that was there was a elementary school and I went there, I was sent to uh,  kindergarten  sixth.
And I- middle school I went to Jefferson.
Which is over there in the Southwest.
Yeah I got jumped from-  yeah.
Uh, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 my high school year.
Nine through twelve.
Yeah.
Well RD-SCHOOL-2 I was like, I knew people going there so I was okay and I'm a f- I'm a  people's person so  it didn't matter which neighborhood I was in like,  they knew me like,  they wouldn't say, oh RD-NAME-2 not with them.
They be like,  even though he from that neighborhood he- we-  they know I'm not gonna do nothing because I want better for myself.
Like, this year I met a freshman  that-  from a neighborhood that  my  neighborhood don't like.
But they looked at me was like, oh he not  do that.
He's not gonna be that  person.
But  always had to show-  I didn't have to show them but  they knew  that  if you come at me a certain way I'm gonna protect myself.
Yeah, but-  in sc- in school?
Uh,  it really was like a neighborhood sit somewhere else with neighborhood like- Yeah but some people from  one neighborhood-  like I be from a neighborhood  in-  and  I'm friends with you, so like  I be like,  that's not gonna happen in school, you know like,  if it happen outside of school it's different.
But in school like we'll be cool, we even play basketball.
I play basketball with people  from neighborhoods that beef years ago  that's still happening,  I'll play basketball but  on the court it was not like that, it was like  um,  I'm playing basketball it wasn't like, oh,  if he touch me the wrong way  I'm'a- we gonna fight.
It wasn't like that.
Uh, my favorite subject  is history.
I don't know it like-  I like hearing the history about  how far DC came and just how the world change.
Uh, well,  it's just like how DC changed over time.
From  being dirt roads to this  gravel now and it just how  it changed from  riding horses and carriages to  cars like,  and how the houses was.
How the first landlines was connected.
It just-  it's different cause you  like-  like if you tell me a story  I can imagine it like I can see it.
But now if I look out there now like,  it's different.
So that's why I like reading about  history.
Uh,  I would say  no.
Cause like,  if you come to DC  like from a different place you're like, oh DC is like where the Governor's at and all that,  President.
Then you actually see DC,  like,  go around the neighborhoods, I'm not just- not talking about  on the DC, Maryland  area I'm talking about  in DC.
If you go around the neighborhoods you'll be like, oh no I don't wanna be in DC.
Like,  I know people  who came from New York  and  Wisconsin who came down here.
Friends that I know play basketball with.
They were like, I ain't- we ain't coming back to DC.
They was like, never coming back here again.
I say we still- my like,  my friend  stayed over my house for a weekend and was like, I can't do it.
Like, I can't come back, cause he- he heard so much shooting.
Like he heard-  he heard it all.
He heard people,  uh,  fighting everyday.
Saw people- he saw people get stabbed,  all in a matter of  three days.
He h- he saw a lot what I face  in three days.
So yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
I think of my little brothers like,  the faster I reach my goals the faster they can get out.
That's what keep me positive and RD-NAME-4 won't let me.
Like,  even if I w-  thought about doing something stupid  he'd put his foot in my throat real quick.
Like- Because-  I'll say I respect him a lot because it just  whatever you go through he won't-  he won't down talk you.
Like,  say if  I just  came from j- fighting.
Come down here  if I tell him,  he would be like- he will talk you, he would- he won't  yell at you but he'll talk to you about it like he  will  show you that it's not  f- good to fight but if it comes down to it  if you had to protect yourself it's different but now,  like I got in a altercation a couple days ago,  and he was like, that's not-  cause  people don't fight with their hands no more.
Like,  people  d- either you gonna get shot or you gonna get stabbed.
Like  that's why I respect him and it's that  don't matter  what you been through  you can feel at home.
And  I would say  you might not think of him like, oh,  I can't talk to RD-NAME-4 cause he gonna go tell somebody about it.
But it's not that.
What you tell him is confidential.
Like that's why I respect him because it's a lot of people  who need  people like that  in- in a world and it's  not a lot of people you can do that to-  you can't talk to.
Like I can talk to my little cousin too.
Like at first I didn't even know that was my cousin when I first came down here.
But now I can talk to her  even though she my little cousin  she been through more I'll say educational experience than I have been.
So it's- I can talk to her about  the streets and what not to do and she can talk to me about school and what to do.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sh-  I- she had a incident where she actually got jumped coming down here.
And  I know how our family is like,  her sister came down here ready to fight, her mom did, it's just not-  And we had to- RD-NAME-4  and myself had to calm them down and tell 'em,  after they calmed me down first,  well,  I told 'em  like,  it's not-  It's gonna be another problem.
Cause they know how she look  and if y'all go around there  with her  it's gonna be a different thing.
But  now I just tell her protect herself at all times, don't-  like,  if you see a group of people coming or you see  something that does-  about to be playing  like just  find the quickest way  to get out the situation.
It's a big relieval it was like,  a lot of weight came off of my shoulders.
But now in- being a,  um,  I'll say a young man who wanted  to be successful,  it's a whole different  ball game cause I don't have-  first of all I gotta finds a way  to provide for myself.
And yeah.
It just-  it was different.
No but I'm looking for jobs now,  as of right now.
I'm doing SYEP right now, Summer Youth Employment  right now, but I'm also looking for jobs.
Uh,  I'm'a wait- I'm'a wait til March like, I'm'a work until March and then do IT.
Yeah just-  Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
She was happy.
She- I'm the first one to come out the household to graduate.
They made me cry.
Like  they-  like, I'm proud of you,  all that.
Yeah.
Uh- Basketball.
That's- that's what we all have in common all three of us.
Or sports in general.
Like- Yeah.
And there's reffing Mm.
Well, basically whatever like  that's gonna help the kids I'll do it.
Like if you tell me I'll  take the kids outside it can be ninety degrees I'm'a complain but I will still do it.
Like it's just like whatever benefits the kids that's what I'm'a do.
And basketball  it's a lot of people way out of  problems at home or sports period.
Yeah when I was younger I wasn't here like, I ain't even know this existed.
But  now I'm saying like,  a lot of people-  a lot of kids here  the way how they behave here and stuff it's like  they need  guidance now  because when they get older,  your attitude's gonna get worse.
The streets gonna  grab you cause your attitude's worse.
Like  yeah, that's gonna be your first option.
Cause if you get into it with your mother she put you out.
Only way you-  you have is the streets.
So,  a lot of-  I'll say a lot of kids here need to-  not a- a lot of the teens here  just need to get their life  together.
Find out what they wanna do  and  at a young age Mm-hm.
Right now  I live with my dad  so it's like  we have a bond cause I can understand why  he was locked up,  but I still don't  defeat the purpose that  he was gone in my life seven years.
It's  like, you wanted to provide for us but you did it the wrong way.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
A big thing.
It's a big thing because  a lot of people  who hang around with-  way like a story my father told it was like one day-  how he got into it he was like one day his best friend  had a thousand dollars,  he was like,  you only  fourteen, whatchu doing with a thousand dollars?
He was like,  I was selling weed and selling  crack and selling like  different drugs and all that.
My father's like,  oh,  I might have a child  so I had to hurry up and get money.
And that's when he fell too.
Mm-mm.
Til I was  what,  think he got locked up when-  when I was eight.
Yeah.
Chase your dreams early.
Like don't let nobody hold you back.
And don't let nobody  get  in your skin  about what you wanna do.
If you wanna go to a specific college as  of  a age range  just go.
No matter as if close or far.
I would tell little kids  like, listen to your parents cause at the end of the day those the only person-  only people that's gonna care about you.
Listen to your family.
And just  chase your dreams like chase what you wanna do  because nothing is handed to you in this world, you gotta take it.
An-  Yeah aunts,  uncles,  yeah.
Yeah.
Uh,  well my two uncles on my mom's side,  mm one of my uncles live in Pennsylvania and one of my uncles live in Delaware so I barely see them.
Well one of my aunts she live in my neighborhood, well my mom's neighborhood.
And  it was like,  every once and a while.
I see her like every weekend.
Or every other weekend,  everybody get together at my grandma house  and just  talk.
Find out  what's the problem, stuff like that.
But we do have social media and stuff I can keep contact in.
Yeah.
Uh, Instagram.
Cause  like  most of my family put up pictures of my little cousins and all that so I can see 'em.
Even though I ain't meet 'em yet, I can see 'em.
But yeah.
Uh, literally right across the street from my mom.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh no, my dad lives  uh, in-  in Northeast.
RD-ADDRESS-3.
Yeah.
It's uh- I'm mostly here  at the RD-WORK-4 then I'll probably go home  for a little while,  or I'll probably go see my little brother stay at my mom house.
So I'm not-  it's like a  even thing,  I'm not with really more one place more than the other.
Yeah  different.
It's like-  It's more qu-  it's quiet because I-  I went around there when I was little so  like,  now I'm not little but  I know a lot of people there too.
So it's not  like, oh he new f- he a new face, I'm not a new face but it's just that-  I'm a cool person like I'm not  gonna  come around somebody else neighborhood and start problems  because that's not  why I came, I came to live my life and  get through my life like.
Well,  something on social media about DC,  it was like,  DC  is like-  I'm trying to remember.
If you don't live your life you've got to survive your life.
Like,  you can't just walk around the neighborhood.
You can't just go anywhere you want to in DC you have to-  like, oh I can't go in that neighborhood cause certain things, like,  you have to be  aware twenty four seven even in-  even when you in your house you gotta be aware.
Yes,  I do.
No, cause a lot of things, stray bullets,  uh,  breaking and entering like stuff like that.
You stay gotta be aware.
Like one time  mm somebody tried to break in my grandad's house.
Yeah that's how serious it is.
Nope.
Yeah any day it can just happen.
Like you have to change up your schedule like  if they know you get off at a certain time  you have to make sure someone in your house.
Like you can't just leave here like you can't just go out of town.
Be gone a month  and think you gonna come home  and think your stuff gonna be there.
Like you probably come home  and your stuff is gone.
Like  yeah.
Yeah.
Well like once ?
around  that happened around my dad- around my grandfather's neighborhood  is the w-  uh, Twenty first, that's where he's at Yeah.
So  a- a whole building  went out of power  I mean not-  the water  main,  like the water pipes were messed up.
And they had to shut the building down  and move 'em.
And people was coming  like,  even though there's nobody there there's chains on the door  and locks.
They was breaking the locks  and going in people house  taking things.
Mm.
Yeah.
It's different.
Like  Eighth Street over on the Northeast side is way different.
in the daytime you see  crackheads, you see people hustling.
Then at night it's  I say all vanilla like it's no really black people.
Like  and it's only-  like, only person I see black people  it's when they stand there in front of Popeyes and those are crackheads or  homeless people asking for food.
That's the only time.
Uh, I don't really go  all like  around but  now I don't  but-  I would say it's like that on Eighth Street because  I'll say-  but I'm not gonna s- speak every black person but  as me  I'll say  as my range-  or my age range what I see  is  black kids fear white people.
I would say from my opinion that's what we feel.
Because on Eighth Street like you can see a lot of teens  then when that's like  time it get dark,  you gonna be around your neighborhood,  be at a party somewhere,  Yeah that's the only two.
You not gonna be  roaming the streets.
No like- black teens fear  white  adults.
Mm-hm.
It's like  a lot of things happening.
So they be like,  oh I'm not trying to be in that predicament.
Or  it be like, if it's a group of black kids walking dow- like I'll give example, if a group of black kids walking down Eighth Street  it's all white people.
They gonna be like-  they gonna feel  like  this not even they city no more.
They gonna feel like  new.
There's gonna-  the way their environment is is gonna make 'em wanna do something stupid like,  Oh let's rob him  because he got the new iPhone.
Like that's how it is, like  that's why  I say  black kid-  black teens fear white people.
Because I- I think they're jealous of their like  not success but  they're more successful s- than them.
I um- I like to laugh so I say like  I watch MTV or BET.
I like to laugh a lot.
Uh, Ridiculousness like, a video it's like  basically like  they show videos from YouTube  that was funny  and they talk about it like stuff like that.
No.
No.
It's not music to me.
It's just-  it's just drum- like music to me is like-  like my fav- one of my favorite artists  is Lyfe Jennings.
Cause he  he talk about what you been through  and how  he is now.
Like  one of my songs is Made Up My Mind.
They talk about  how  church people  talk about people  and they do the same thing.
So yeah I like  old R and B  like  Sam Cooke,  Boyz II Men stuff like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Mm just any carry out  place with- yeah any carry out.
Uh,  it's basically a topping.
Like if you want chicken you like, can I get chicken with mumbo sauce, or  you want some fries, I get mumbo sauce on that too.
It's like a topping, basically.
Any carry out.
Yeah.
Teens like-  it's a v-  lot of talented teens  with gifts.
But they don't know how to use 'em.
Like,  I know people who can sing like  n-  like  anybody never heard  like they just sing.
But when it's time for them like,  if I be like, see you sing  in front of me they'd be shy.
Like, oh maybe I don't sound right to you.
Cause  DC got a lot of people-  like I feel as though  a lot of people wanna judge you  no matter what you is.
You can be successful they be like,  oh look at him he-  he's successful but he's dirty, or s- he's successful but  he don't have um,  he-  he don't have no parents, like  whatever you do, somebody's still gonna judge you regardless.
That's what  my generation fear.
It- you- they can say, I don't let nobody get to me I do what I want to,  but you do  and you don't know it.
Well it's- it wasn't basically- it was my life like what I've been through.
And basically  how I got to where I am now.
Uh- Yeah.
Alright well, it's basically  I grew up from a  single parent mother with two brothers  trying to feed.
Uh, my mom went  sometime days without eating just for us to eat.
Uh,  I been in a- situations,  I  carried guns before,  I tried to sell weed just to provide for my little brothers.
And that's not  what I wanted to be.
And it just show you  like  the program that I was- I'm in  or I'll like thank the  Civic  Leaders Program  for  giving me the opportunity  to  be somebody.
Because  like  without  being-  without me being right here I would be and be  out my friends any time of night  or playing basketball  all day.
It's not  like  one day I'm'a do this or  it's not a set plan it's,  oh RD-NAME-2 let's go this way, if I don't got nothing to do I'm'a go.
Like that's why I like to be down here because I'm not-  I'm never  sitting around.
So  yeah.
It's a lot of-  it's a lot of commotion around here.
Like  yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh, I play chess.
I like to play chess.
Yeah I played chess since I was elementary school like I have awards for it.
Uh- A old mentor taught me how.
No like we was playing in his class,  he was like, that's not how you play.
He was teaching us- the whole class like, this is a pawn  this is a king, queen, knight,  rook,  and just showing like, he used it as-  of power.
It was like, us black people are pawns.
And it's like  every step we take  you have to worry about something  getting taken away.
And he used the rook as-  the rook  either you can move forward in life  or you can move back.
It was like and the-  the king and queen,  it's like a queen  is basically  your own.
You can move anywhere you want to.
It was like,  a lot of people trying to-  a lot of people think that they're kings and queens but they're really pawns.
And that's it that what they use it as.
And he showed me he's like,  oh,  like that's what I need to reach.
I need to reach the highest level before I can move any type of way.
Uh,  That's basically it.
Yeah.
Oh another hobby I like to swim.
Yeah.
My grandmother.
Uh, one day we went to the pool  on South Carolina  and she just threw me in.
And that was like  swim.
And I had to learn like that.
I was probably like  four.
And that's how I learned how to swim.
Yeah.
Mm,  I think she threw me in there to show like,  at the end of the day it's just you.
Like,  nobody else can help you but you- but yourself.
And that's how I interpreted it like,  oh maybe I got-  Me screaming is not doing nothing maybe I gotta slow down and think  what I gotta do.
Oh nah, she passed.
From being in the streets.
Yeah.
She passed from the streets like,  yeah.
Uh,  say like,  two years ago.
Three years ago.
I got a tattoo to remember I was- I can't put rest in peace cause she's not gone.
So.
Yeah.
Mm.
I'd like to leave one message for  people my age.
Find something that you would like.
Find something that's different  from everybody else.
Because a trend's easy to set  but  your life is not a easy step.