My name is RD-NAME-7.
April twenty third,  two thousand and- No, nineteen eighty eight.
In Washington DC?
You wanna know the hospital?
Uh, Columbia Hospital for Women.
The neighborhood that I grew in is called uh, Fifteenth Place.
It's in Southeast DC.
Say that one more time?
Since nineteen eighty eight.
I currently live in Virginia.
Alexandria.
I lived in Upper Marlboro for a year.
College?
Or high school.
I went to high school.
It's called the n- uh, RD-SCHOOL-3.
It's in Northeast DC off of Benning Road.
Not really, well yeah.
I went to uh, RD-SCHOOL-7 in Penn- in Oxford, Pennsylvania.
And I also went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm.
I am a lead legal assistant for RD-WORK-6.
RD-WORK-12.
I do a variety of things but what my  office focus on is we  A- The ALJ issue a favorable decision.
We look- We look at the ALJ's decision,  and if the ALJ  made a incorrect-  If they made a mistake on their decision,  we send- we remand the case for them to look at it again, and we- we let 'em know what the mistakes they made.
So what I do personally, is I would mail out the- the uh, remand order  to go to the hearing office or the- back to the ALJ.
Uh, since two thousand ten.
Yeah.
Um, my m-  father was born in Silver Spring, Maryland, and my mother was born in Washington DC.
Nah.
Nowhere near.
Uh, I-  I-  I know my gr- grandmother was born in South- North Carolina.
I'm not sure where my other grandparents was born.
Nah, I'm not sure.
I know my mother's father is from DC.
I do know that.
Yeah.
Uh, he currently works for-  I do not know the name of the company, but he delivers uh,  goods to like,  homeless shelters or-   Mommy works for the army.
She's a  purchasing agent.
Hm.
Mkay.
Okay.
Yes.
Okay, now, Fifteen Place- You- you said what do I claim, so my house is actually off of S-  Stanley Road, but Fifteenth Place is like a big neighborhood.
It's a-  It- it consists of Stanley Road,  Bruce Place, Fifteenth Place,  um, Hollywood Boulevard  and Alabama Avenue.
So,  but we- If you grew up in that area there, you would say you from Fifteenth Place.
So what do you wanna know about my neighborhood?
Well,    I don't wanna talk about the bad stuff unless you aks that specifically, but um, just growing up,  you uh- we- we kids- you running around.
You play tag.
You play hide and go seek.
Uh,  you chase the little girls around.
You play on the playground.
Uh,  growing up- I remember five years old, I was just playing football all the time.
I'm a very  big sports f- fan- fanatic.
So I'd play football all the time.
Um,  growing up, uh, we didn't have a basketball court til I turned eight.
So, that's when I discovered basketball, so I would play basketball all the time, so.
Of course I'm a diehard Redskin fan.
I am not a Wizards fan.
Gro- Growing up um-  My basketball team is the Lakers.
Growing up, foot-  Like, basketball wasn't really my sport,  and  so I'd- I-  I was bor- I was ber- b-  bredded into being a Redskin fan.
So the f- f- uh- the professional football teams, I didn't discover until I was eight.
And then when I discovered that, I read a book about Kobe Bryant,  and then that's when I became a Laker's fan.
Uh, house.
Town- Would you call it a townhome?
I wouldn't call it a townhome.
I would just call it a house.
Yeah.
No.
I have four sisters.
Only boy.
Yes.
Um, to be honest with you, it wasn't that bad because my sisters are way older than me.
The sister  older than me is- She's nine years,  so  she kind of raised me and my little sister.
So it was just me and her.
But the rest of my sisters, they was already out the house.
The only time-  I- I will say we probably- They-  They was in the house probably when I was, what?
I wanna say from like,  three to  t-  to probably six years old?
So that's the only time I experienced a lot of  women in the house.
And you know, females can't get along.
So my sisters used to fight all the time.
I wouldn't say innocent, but   yes, I was- I w- I wouldn't necessa- say- say my older sisters were really focused on me  too much.
Like, it's- it's just probably just me and my little sister  and my mother and father.
So they was kind of- You know how they- they into their own thing.
Yeah.
So- to answer your question, it wasn't that bad.
No.
Yeah.
No.
I go back there all the time.
My- my friends, they- What they did was they- they  s- tore down the neighborhood, and they rebuilt it.
And a lot of people that used to live there moved back.
So one of my friends- Well, my best friend,  he's-  they move- one of the people that moved back, so I go there- I go there often.
Well I used to anyway.
Oh you wanna know the names specifically or?
Okay.
Well,  my friend-  my friend RD-NAME-2,  we- we- we all- It's a group us.
It's-  it's me,  Fat Man, which is named RD-NAME-4,  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-5,  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-4.
We all grew up since we were s-  three years old.
Cause I- My-  I used to live in North- My family's from Northwest.
And me and my- me and my sister are the only two that grew up in Southeast.
All my sisters, they went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um,  what's that- Rand- Randolph Street.
My grandmother still has a house off Randolph Street.
So when I was born, we lived in Jefferson-  on Jefferson Street for two years.
So I don't recall any of that.
I just remember moving to Southeast when I was three years old.
So we s-  So we grew up,  since we was three years old.
Uh, when I was twelve, that's when they tore down the neighborhood.
So  as children we was all tight.
Uh, we just- All we did was play basketball.
We wasn't really into doing anything  negative.
We would have uh,  rock fights,  um,  sling shock fights.
That's- that's all about it- That's all that we- We wasn't really into none of the  crime or doing anything  bad or anything like that.
My group of friends wasn't.
So when we got older, we- we s- we split up.
I moved to Southwest for uh,  two years when I was thirteen or fourteen.
And um, my other friends, they moved to uh- You ever heard of Woodland?
My other friend RD-NAME-2, he moved to Woodland.
My friend RD-NAME-2, he moved back to- him and his family's from Barry Far- They moved back to Barry Farms.
And my other friend, he moved up the street by Seven District.
Yes.
Uh,  no because that neighborhood was gone.
So I- we didn't go back to that neighborhood, but I would go visit my friends.
All the time.
Uh, they would come visit me in Southwest.
And when I moved to Southwest I was- It was kind of like-  I didn't know that  Southwest was that bad of a neighborhood.
Just- just as bad as Southeast.
So it wasn't really no transition.
Like it would be gunshots right outside my backyard.
So Southwest is s- well was, cause it's different now, was just as bad as Southeast.
Uh, t- what is that called?
I forgot the name of it.
Um,  right there  across the street  from the Nationals Stadium.
You know where Waterfront Station is?
Right there, in that area.
Before they built all that stuff up, right there.
Um, you know where I Street is?
Yeah.
It was off I Street- Yeah it was condos and there was- it's some houses.
on your uh,  right hand side.
And the- I think it was called Green Leaf something.
Green Leaf-  I don't remember the name of the neighborhood.
Because I don't- I don't-  I- I personally don't like to talk about that because I don't- I- I don't think that's  relevant to anything.
Like, I mean ever- Of course, everybody grows up in a bad area,  and everybody goes through that stuff.
But I don't- I don't like to glorify it  cause I don't think that's important.
But it-  Nah, nah, nah.
From?
Just- To be honest with you, just being with my friends.
Like, I- Like, to this day, we still are tight.
So I j- I love hanging with my friends.
We-  Uh, I don't have one specific memory  to be truthfully honest with you.
But it's j- it's just- just being able to go outside and just hang with them all night- all nights of the hour- til four, five o'clock in the morning.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In the neighborhood, or- Uh, the difference is they- they-  The people are still the same.
It's just the-  the area look different.
Like, th-  Have you seen the news where um, the two- the men  got raped?
The dude got raped  by four men?
They-  Well that's- that's the neighborhood where I grew up in.
That's by the Giant.
I'm surprised you didn't see that on the news.
Okay.
Well yeah yeah yeah.
They- They built a um-    We had a um-  We had a shopping center.
We had- It's called Lee's Market, and we had our carry out called What Luck.
So that area, they tore that down.
They built a um,  a Giant right there and S- a Subway and all that stuff, so.
But yeah, the neighborhood just look totally different.
No, it- it- it's nothing that-  that-  that reminds me of the old neighborhood.
Just the people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My father grew up in DC.
He just was born in Maryland.
Yeah s- same neighborhood as my mother.
Yeah, my father tell me the story all the time.
He said uh, he was just coming around the neighborhood,  and he was playing football in the alley with his friends.
And he said my mother seen him, and my father's real real dark,  so my mother said, hey black boy,  or something like that.
And  that's how he uh- he  got introduced to my mother.
Cause my mother, she's a- she's a real calm chill person now, but she said in her childhood, she was a real  uh- I don't wanna say, she was a  troubled child.
Like she would fight all the time, beat people up.
So she was real aggressive.
So my father tells me that story all the time.
Um, I'm not s- I think fourteen.
Yeah, fourteen.
Yeah.
Junior high school.
Junior high school maybe.
Uh, not necessarily together, but that's- that's how long they knew each other.
I do not know this story.
I'm'a aks when I get-  Yeah.
Yeah.
My mother was tr-  sh-  I'm- I'm- I think something  dramastically happened in Jefferson Street with my father.
So my mother wanted to move from that area.
So I'm not sure she was familiar with Southeast  because she- she said she wanted to get out of a bad neighborhood.
But she moved- end up moving to another bad neighborhood .
But she said um,  she was looking for somewhere to live, and she said Northwest was too expensive.
So she moved to Southeast,  where it was less expensive.
Yes.
No, I'm the only f- f- uh, sports fanatic in our family.
How was I introduced to football?
My uncle.
My father doesn't watch sports at all.
Yeah.
We don't necessarily have family traditions, we just- we- d- When we do- I mean- When we are able to see each other, we- we embrace each other.
Like, we- we all- we love each other so much.
Like, it's-  Um, I'm not explaining but,  when we- when we do or when we are able to get together,  we just like,  we enjoy that mom- We embrace those moments.
All my sisters still live in the area.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mkay.
I loved school.
Uh, did like- Did I like school as a child?
Um,  I'm not gonna necessarily I l- say I loved it or hated it.
I- I don't have any  bad memories from school.
School was always  okay.
Like,  I didn't hate school to answer your question.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Uh, RD-SCHOOL-1- RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High School  and  from RD-SCHOOL-2, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-2 is  right in the neighborhood where I grew up in.
That's off of Bruce Place.
Yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-2 is- or RD-SCHOOL-2 is right here.
You walk up, uh, Stanton Road, and RD-SCHOOL-2 is right there too, on your left hand side.
Okay, so you always on Alabama Avenue.
Okay.
I know where you going- you're going down there.
Yeah.
Okay the ARC- Yeah, yeah.
I know where the ARC is.
Yeah.
Wait then you know where- it's j-  You know where RD-SCHOOL-2 is right?
Okay, you know that shopping center across the street from RD-SCHOOL-2, that's the Giant and stuff I was talk- Oh yeah yeah yeah.
And then the cr- neighborhood across the street, that's the neighborhood where I grew up at.
Then- Yeah.
Those are the new houses they built.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know exactly what I'm talking about.
Fifteenth Place is that street right there, by- across the street from the IHOP?
You see you know where the IHOP is right there?
Yeah.
The IHOP is right there.
Fifteenth Street is that street- n- the long street right there.
Yeah.
No.
No, my mother- Okay, let me tell you this story.
I was in RD-SCHOOL-2, right?
And  I- I tell my mother this story all the time.
I-  In eighth grade I- I had too much fun.
I was- I was enjoying myself.
I was with my friends all the time.
We wouldn't do- I didn't take school that seriously.
So I got a F on my report card.
And my mother said, no, you're not gonna be with your friends no more.
Mind you, I wanted to become a fress- professional basketball player.
I thought I was that good at the time.
And I just joined uh, the basketball team,  and the coach, he loved me.
So I begged my mom.
I said, mom, please don't- Please let me go back to school cause I wanna play on the basketball team.
She would not let me go.
So she said, okay, I'm'a- I'm'a take you away from your friends,  because she- she didn't like the fact that I got a F on my report card.
I n- I always got good grades.
I always got good grades.
So she said, okay, I'm'a take you away from your friends, and I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
So I feel like she ruined my NBA career.
I don't think so, but in my- in- in my head- in mine head, that's how I feel.
Please don't.
Yeah, you coulda- Yes, you coulda have.
Yeah.
When I went to- Okay.
Have- I don't think you ever seen RD-SCHOOL-3.
It looks like a church.
This school- This area right here is bigger than what my high school was.
So when I first got there, I said-  I said, okay Mom, where's the school?
And she said, this is it.
I said- I thought it was the place where you go to sign up to go to the school.
So I said-  I said, ma, I said, what is this?
So, the hallways I could literally touch  the- the hallways like this.
So,  we- I'm walking through the hallways, and I'm just like- I felt like I was in jail.
I just did not like the school.
I was mad cause I wasn't with my friends.
So,  I-  I-  I ain't gon-  To be honest with you, I don't like to think about high school because I was so miserable throughout the whole four years.
Of course I developed new friendships.
I still have friends from there to this day.
Uh, I have two very good friends that I still talk to.
And the rest of the people I don't- I don't really wanna be associated with none of the people that went to that school.
Of course.
I n- I- I personally never went to school with any white people.
I haven't-  The first time me being introduced to white people was when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
So I've been  around black people my whole life.
I don't even know how it is to  interact with white people.
I mean I do now, but when I was- I would say when I was nineteen years old, that's my first interaction with white people.
And my first initial reaction was  white people really act how they act on TV.
Like I thought that was crazy.
Cause they really talk like that.
I- I never experienced that before.
So it was a- It was not- not necessarily culture shock, but it was just like, wow this is crazy.
Cause I've been around black people my whole life.
Hm, m- m- I don't know about predom- They all black, not predominantly black.
It's no-  not even Spanish people.
Has it changed much?
The changes I see- I never seen a white person  walking in Southeast.
I never seen that before.
I never thought I would see that in my life.
And I'm walking around my old neighborhood, and I see a white person walking,  with- with their dog, and I said, what is this?
I said, that is crazy.
Not necessarily saying it's a bad thing, but I just never thought I would see that  in my life.
So I'm- One, I'm wondering why do they feel that comfortable to live here?
Cause I- me personally, I- I don't even wanna live there.
So I don't know how to-  But I- I just think it's crazy.
And uh, i- t- even in Northwest,  like, it's- t- to see all those white people there, it's just crazy to me.
Because growing up, you never seen white people in DC.
Never.
And I- I- I wasn't familiar with the Georgetowns or the-  the George Washington- I weren't familiar with those areas,  so I would just be on  Georgia Avenue, Fourteenth Street, U Street,  uh,  those areas on down.
So I n- I- I- To see white people in DC is crazy to me.
U Street has changed dramatically.
Dramatically.
Okay.
So,  back in- I wanna say the nineties  because I would gro to my grandmother's house all the time.
All you would see was crackheads, heroine addicts,  and  dr-  drunks  just walking around.
Uh,  that's U Street,  uh, Georgia Avenue,  and Randolph Street, where my mother used to live.
Beside- My mother, my grandmother- Beside my grandmother house was a actual crackhouse.
People would go there just to smoke crack.
How do I know it as a child?
Because that's all the adults would talk about.
So, that's- that's my memory from uh,  from Northwest.
Yeah.
I'm still in- I'm still in shock.
I'm still shocked.
E- Even when I- Cause I don't travel to the Northwest that often, Even when I go in those areas, I'm still like,  look at all these buildings and look at all these people.
Like, to me it's like a mini New York.
Like, it's just so many people.
It's- it's like a shock like, it's just crazy to me.
And sometimes I aks the adults, I say, how do y'all-  how do y'all feel about  how it looks now from when y'all was younger?
And it's- They don't- No- I don't think nobody's a- Other- No one- No one's amazed other than me.
So I don't understand it.
But they just like-  They ju- I think everybody else is still- still can't believe that they built all these buildings and-  and how nice it look, and the white people walking around like it's nothing.
But- I believe it's real, and I think it's- I think it's good.
Me personally, I think it's a good thing.
Because the way  DC was is not like how it was.
So,  I think- I think progress is always good.
I just wish they would cross the bridge and start gentrification over there.
Mm-hm.
I see.
Yeah.
But that was one person though.
In Northwest, you see white people everywhere.
An- and in Northeast.
I mean I'm- I- I can't wait til it comes.
I think it'll be nice.
No, I won't.
Nah, I don't wanna live in DC.
Nah.
Okay.
I got to RD-SCHOOL-2- One of my teachers at RD-SCHOOL-3 was affiliated or a alumni.
Did I say it right?
Alumni of RD-SCHOOL-3.
So um,    when I took my- I- I always got good grades.
I uh- I had a  three point  three GPA, which I was in the top ten in my class.
I don't- I- I never test well.
So I got  way below average scores on my SATs.
So, every school that I applied to I didn't get in.
So I got accepted to Kentucky Un- No,  K- No.
Is it Ken- Yeah, Kentucky University.
And I was gonna go there, but he said that uh,  he can get me in the summer program at RD-SCHOOL-4  to take uh, ten credits  um, in the- during the summer time.
So I said, that's cool.
So I was gonna d- take those ten credits and then go to Kentucky,  but when I got there, I loved it.
I loved the people that I was with, so I decided to stay.
Now,  when I got there-  I'm- I'm not  the-  I'm not a person who wants to be hood or who wants to be  representing  the hood or nothing like that.
When I got to college, I wanted to be in college.
So when I got to RD-SCHOOL-2,  it was a culture shock for me.
All I know is DC.
All I knew was DC at the time.
So when I got to RD-SCHOOL-2, I met people from  Philly, New Jersey, New York,  and Baltimore.
So, t- th- these people, they talk different.
They don't dress like we dress.
They don't  talk like- I mean they don't-  They don't have the same mindset that we have.
And a lot of- a lot of the people there,  majority of the people there-  Their focus was on where they- where they was from.
So, I'm from New York, I'm better than you.
I'm from Philly, I'm better than you.
You- you don't go harder than me.
I didn't like that  cause I'm like, okay.
I already left DC where that- that is going on.
I don't wanna deal with this anymore.
So the teachers  was excellent though.
The teachers, everybody there was good.
The staff, everybody was good.
I just couldn't take the student body.
So my first year there, I was miserable.
So I decided to go to RD-SCHOOL-2 because I wanted to experience something different.
I wanted to know what it was like to go to school around white people and be around white people, and I wanted-  And it was in the mountains, so I wanted somewhere where I could study and h- it didn't have any distractions.
I'm not sure to be truthfully honest with you.
I don't know where that connection came from, but I know that me and my friends went on a visit there.
My friends from uh, college.
No, f- my friends from high school.
And I liked it.
I really liked it.
I really liked  the atmosphere.
I liked the- the people.
I liked the buildings.
Cause RD-SCHOOL-2 was, you know, RD-SCHOOL-2 was started in eighteen fifty or something like that.
I forgot when they started, but it was a hundred and fifty years old, so they had old buildings.
Not that that matters anyway, but I just liked the buildings at RD-SCHOOL-2 cause they were so new.
So I said, okay, I wanna go here.
So I applied, and I got accepted, and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wouldn't say a shock.
I would say it was- Because they-  at RD-SCHOOL-2,  it was- I'm not gonna say segregated, but you had your black people who hung together,  and the white people who hung together.
So you had- they had black parties and- I wouldn't necessarily say they had white parties, but they had black parties.
And the black  people would hang together.
So,  it w- you would rarely see  black and white people  hanging together, but  the reason why I would talk to white people- I was- Because of my major.
I m- I majored in Mechanical Engineering.
So those though- Those are the people I would see in my classes.
So that's how I w- I was able to introduce, to have conversations with them, and to  go to parties that they would go to and stuff like that, so  my experience at RD-SCHOOL-2 was good.
I liked it.
Um,  as far as spo- Uh, I'm-  I'm a sports fanatic.
I played basketball all the time.
I would go to the gym.
Um,  I wasn't a party person, but I did go to some of the parties.
I didn't drink until I got out of college.
So,  but um,  I- That's about it.
Uh, I was- Of course, I'm into the females, so I would go  to the female's dorm rooms and stuff like that, so.
No, I did not pledge.
Yeah, they have it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not- no, it wasn't big.
It was- It was i- It was there, it wasn't big.
At RD-SCHOOL-2 it was extremely big.
Yeah yeah yeah, it was- it was even ran the school, so.
But was I ever interested?
I wouldn't-  I thought about it, but no, I was never interested in joining Greek.
That's- that's the one I w- I consider, but n- I said nah.
Yeah.
I don't even know what that is.
Okay.
When I went to- it was two thousand six when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And I would wear th- I had on my New Balance cause that's you know that's- I don't know if you know but that's all we do now- That's all we wear.
So,  the dude said-  he said, What are those?
I said, Uh, these are New Balance.
These are nine nine- I think at the time it was nine nine o-  nine- nine nine ones at the time.
And, I said, These nine nine ones.
And he said, You got on old people shoes?
And I said, No.
I said, These are- I said, These are nine nine ones.
I said, Do you know how much these cost?
And they couldn't believe they was over a hundred dollars.
They thought I payed like fifty or som- fifty dollars or something for 'em.
And he was like, Oh, okay.
So  the next- When we got to school in the- in the fall, I started seeing people wearing New- New Balances.
This is crazy.
But yeah, they- At the time, they didn't like New Balance.
They thought Nike boots was wack.
They didn't- They didn't- U- My clothes actually fit.
At the time, they were still wearing baggy clothes, or they didn't like that my clothes fit, so.
Uh, I would say certain things, like um,  like carry out.
I would say, Let's go to the carry out.
They said, What's that?
They- I said, The carry out.
They say, Uh, Chinese food.
They said, You mean the Chinese-  Chinese f-  uh-  Chinese place?
I said, No, it's called a carry out.
So yeah, stuff like that.
Um,  what was different for me for them?
Like the way Philly people talk.
Like I thought it was funny.
They say back or they say uh-  they say jawn.
Joint.
They say jawn.
We say joint.
Yeah.
I wish I could give you an example.
I got- I will have to think about that one.
But their mentality from us is extremely different.
I know New York  f- New York didn't e- What I f- uh, thought about the New York people, they a little bit more fast pace.
Like they-  they're-  they can talk a good game.
Like, they're- they're- they are real hustlers.
Like, uh, Ph-  Ph- What I thought from Philly people, they-  i-  if you wasn't hard, or if you didn't act street like, you wasn't accepted.
Um,  the way they dress was a lot different.
They wear a lot of uh,  Dickies,  like Dickie pants and stuff like that .
Um,  New Jersey people, they was cool.
They- they kind of- They kind of remind me of the Philly people I guess cause t-  probably- t-  probably- they probably was close.
Uh, Baltimore people-  I don't know if you know, but DC and Baltimore people don't get along that well.
I don't-  I don't know where it came from- I don't know why, but I- I just don't personally like people from Baltimore.
I have no idea- It just- it just g- I guess, if you grew up in the area, you just-  you just grew up like that.
We always-  When I grew up,  when we think of Baltimore people, we say bamas, Baltimore bamas.
That's all we-  I don't know why.
I just know we don't like Baltimore for some reason.
I have no i- No.
Like, you would never see a p- somebody from Baltimore in DC, and you never see somebody from DC in Baltimore.
It just doesn't go.
Like I've been to Baltimore probably three times in my life.
Know why.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have no idea where it comes from.
No, if you ever find out, let me know.
I haven't, when I got older- Uh,  I- I told my friend when I was in school in RD-SCHOOL-2, I said, I've never seen the White House before.
I n- d- I never seen the White- I- I didn't see the White House until I would say, I was twenty two years old.
I n- I didn- I didn't know where it was at.
I didn't know how to find it.
So, that's- that lets you know how much-  I don't- it's- it's not that we can't go to this, but  for some reason our mentality is  just in this one area.
Like it was rare-  Only reason why I crossed that bridge is to go to my grandmother's house.
Other than that, I will always be in Southeast.
Not until I got older, no.
Oh yeah!
Oh yeah, we would take school trips there.
Yeah.
We would, yeah, as a uh- in elementary school.
I mean I just got older.
I just- I- I'm a- I'm a fan of history, so I wanted to explore these museums and these monuments and  so I just got older, and I just wanted to see the stuff.
Well of course it would have to be Martin Luther King.
I love Martin Luther King, but uh, other than that um,  I'm a big- I'm a big uh, Lincoln fan.
Big Abraham Lincoln fan.
I s- I studied Abraham Lincoln, so it's- it's nothing you can aks me that I wouldn't be an answer.
Yeah, I s- I study history.
Like, I- I love history.
Okay.
That's a good question.
When I was thirteen years old, I would watch the  History Channel, Discovery Channel all the time.
And they had this show called uh-  I forgot.
Majoring in Engineering or something?
And they would always show how  these people build these big tall buildings and stuff like that.
So initially I wanted to become a civil engineer, and then, as I got older, I got  um,  introduced to cars, and I started to become a cars fan.
So I wanted to design engines.
So that's when- that's where mechanical engineering came from.
Well,  When I was in RD-SCHOOL-2-  Actually when I started uh,  RD-SCHOOL-2,  I had to take- My- my major was calcul- physics because they didn't have mechanical engineering there.
So, I started to get into  calculus.
Um,  I had chemistry before, but I- my d- instructor wasn't good.
Ph- uh, physics,  and uh, all these sinuses- all these sciences and math.
I was always good at math in high school.
That's why I didn't have issues with taking it.
But when I got to  calculus, it-  my school didn't offer calculus.
The highest math we had was algebra two.
So when I got to-  to school,  I wasn't passing these classes or getting these good grades cause I- I didn't- I never seen it before.
I didn't understand it.
I was never taught it.
So when I got to RD-SCHOOL-2, I had to ta- I took um,  Calculus three times,    I barely passed Physics,  and I was in Physics Two, and I didn't too well in that class wither.
So uh, they-  uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 put me on academic probation.
And then the next semester, I didn't get the grades that I was supposed to get.
So they didn't um-  they didn't approve my financial aid.
So I had to drop out.
So when I dropped out, I came home and worked.
And I never went back to school to finish.
So that's why I'm not in those fields.
But I am- I do wanna  go back and finish and  potentially get into those fields.
To be engineer, a mechanical engineer.
I don't necessarily have a car, but I always wanted to design engines, like any engine.
Like, it c- it could be a plane engine, boat engine.
So it doesn't matter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm.
Okay.
No I d- As a child, I always been interested in history.
I been uh- I've always watched the History Channel.
Like I just al- always love history.
I- I don't know, sparked my int- I have no idea where it came from.
I just al- I guess just flipping channels, and I just- All of a sudden, something would come on, and I-  And I just look at it.
So I- I guess that's where it sparked from, but I don't know where it comes from.
Um,  I- I worked for RD-WORK-1, the RD-WORK-5  RD-WORK-19,  and someone told me that uh, RD-WORK-6 was hiring.
So I just applied,  and I got it.
I don't know how I got it, but I got it.
RD-NAME-3 started with us last June.
And um,  one of my coworkers introduced me to RD-NAME-3.
And I don't know why I took interest to RD-NAME-3, but we just starting having these conversations, and we just became friends.
I- I to- I- I never told him about it, but I look at him as my big brother cause I always ask him questions.
So yeah.
Of course you can tell him.
Because- Alexandria.
It's because of where I work.
I work in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia.
So I got tired of um,    traveling across the bridge, so I just- just decided to live in Virginia.
Only reason.
I have no reason to be in Virginia.
To be honest with you, I never kn- I never really knew about Virginia until I w- started working in Virginia.
I w- I n- I would never come to Virginia.
I have no reason to- I had no reason to come over to Virginia.
N-  no.
Yeah.
I would hang out in DC, yes.
DC, yeah.
That's it.
Yeah.
Is V-  DC different from Virginia?
Yes.
Why?
Well,  the demographics again.
I don't see  that many white people in  DC where I hang out at.
Uh, I would say  Springfield.
Uh, I don't necessarily hang out there, but I would go to restaurants.
Um,    um, Falls Church.
Uh, Sterling.
You think so?
That's not that far.
It's off of- just off of three ninety five.
Yeah, but that- but I only go there s- only to go there to- for restaurants cause the people I work with, they live in Virginia, so they suggest different places to go.
I don't necessarily live- I do live by the airport, but-   uh, okay.
Have you-  when you come to f-  when you come off the bridge from four ninety five, and you come right off the bridge, I kind of live in that area.
You know- Have you- You know where the American Buffet- where those car dealerships are?
I live in that area.
Yeah, route o- off of route one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I mean- Yeah- No, no, no, not the old town side, but you know that's like five minutes right there.
Yeah.
Nah, I'm not over- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Yeah.
Nah, nah, nah.
You're talking about Potomac Yards.
Nah.
No.
Yeah.
Just try not to fall into the  trap of You have to be a certain way.
Just  be yourself.
Try not to  focus on tryna impress your friends and females.
Just-  just  figure out what you wanna do,  and f- and follow that path  because  as a child, I don't know why, but I never really cared about what other people thought about me.
So to fall into the trap of tryna sell drugs or tryna create this pert- persona that I'm a thug,  I- I never- I never was that  child  or never was that individual.
So that's how my mentality is not,  I need to be like this.
I need to do that.
So,  I w- I would just try to tell them  to  try to- Because- If you- Growing up in that environment  and growing up around those people,  you can't help but wanna be like that.
So I would try to s-  steer their mind from that.
Try to because it's hard to-  to talk to young individuals.
So try to steer their mind from- from that-  from that concept.
And try to get them to follow the right path or to follow their own path.
Because you- If you don't have goals in minds, you're not gonna strive to do anything.
So th- I- That's- That would be my advice.
I just think that would be difficult  because  that person has to want to do it.
I want to mentor, but no I don't.
I j- I really- I really don't have the time.
I really have to make time because I have- I have two kids.
That's a story within itself.
I have two- two little girls by two different uh,  mothers.
So that- that- that set me back a little bit from- from going back to school because I- I was- I was ready to go back to school but  had them babies, and that- that took my- My m- My money went to that, so.
Uh,  two and three.
No, no, no.
Three and four.
No actually they  two and- Yeah, two and three.
Yeah, my daughter's about to turn three, that's why, and then my other daughter's about to turn four.
Yeah.
Oh I s-  Nah, I- if you don't ask specifically, nah, I'm not gonna g- I'm not gonna go into that, but.
I don't- I don't mind.
It- it- that's- that's on you.
But uh,    ma-  I don't know.
You gonna have to s- ask specific questions.
Uh, n- my- my oldest daughter is RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME- 6.
RD-NAME-4.
Her mother  got mad at me and didn't give her my last name.
Her name was supposed to be RD-NAME-6, and I'm still salty about that.
My other daughter, she's three?
No, two.
She's uh- she's very active.
Her name is RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-6.
Yeah.
No.
Nah, I wish I could play basketball with them.
Uh, I can't wait til that happens.
But um, I see my daughters  every other weekend.
So I get one one weekend and get the other one the next weekend.
The reason why I don't get 'em both together is I c- I can't handle both of 'em together.
My little- my l- my younger one, she's a- she's tough by herself.
Um, I will at some point get both of them together when they get older.
I get  uh, my youngest daughter every Wednesday.
But I see my- my-  I see my oldest daughter a lot.
I see her uh, mostly throughout the week.
So I- M- Basically, I would say, throughout the week,  I'm probably by myself  once a week.
Cause uh, they are constantly with me all the time.
No, my- my youngest daughter live in DC.
But both of 'em was born in Maryland.
I did not want  her to l- She lives down the street from my mother.
My mother lives in Southeast currently,  and my daughter lives right down the street in walking dinstances from my mo- I did not want her to live in Southeast.
But her mother insist on she living right there.
No.
Not at all.
Nah.
I'm-  No boy.
No.
Mm-mm.
Yes.
Of course I'm wrapped, and they wrapped as well.
But can they can away with something?
Nah, I'm- I'm strict.
They don't get away with anything.
I am mild mannered, but I don't- I don't- I-  I- I don't like to deal with  BS.
Like I c- I just can't deal with it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle.
The book gives you um,  a different way of thinking- expanding your thinking.
Like one- one- I tell this story all the time.
One- one section of book,  he talks about how when you wash your hands,  don't focus on what's around you.
Just focus on the water going around your fingers.
Like try to-  The book, he's- he's kind of want you to think of-  think in the now instead of tryna think in the future or the past.
Like take care of what you got going on now, and the future and the past will take care of itself.
So that's why I- I read that book like three times because I read it when  I have a lot going on in my life.
So I read it to just try to get my mind to focus on other things  and try to be  calm- calm and well mannered  instead of being stressed.
So I- I love that book.
Yeah, by Eckhart Tolle.
You will love it.
Yeah.
If you read it, you will- It just-  It just gives you a different way of thinking and- and approaching certain situations.
He talks about everything from religion to love to  everything.
It just gives you a different way of thinking, and it's-  I like how in the book, he goes- He has a question and answer  thing in the book, where people ask him questions on what- what he just said, and he would respond to it.
So I- I like that part in the book as well.
Um, movie?
I don't have a favorite movie.
I don't really have a favorite anything, but of course  my favorite TV show right now will have to be Power.
Would have- would have to be Power.
That show is just the best.
It's just entertaining.
It's very entertaining.
I found myself-  I guess I ca- I don't relate to Ghost, but I've found a little bit of my personality in the Ghost.
Like, I love how  he's-  he's doing what he's doing, and he's kind of like using that  to  move on and progress in his life.
So I- I like- I like that.
And I like the fact that  he's in l-  he's willing to  f- f- fight for what he want,  even though he's not going about it the right way.
So  yeah.
I see myself in Ghost a little bit.
That's why I like.
Do you w- Have you changed that?
Do you call it carry out now?
Okay.
In our minds, anything Chinese felated would always be the carry out.
So no matter if they do directly say only Chinese food,  we will always call it a carry out.
Cause that's- that's what-  It's kind of like,  you-  you know that  the light switch is named light switch.
You wouldn't call it a- nothing else, but a- but I guess a flicker.
But in your mind you're programmed to think it's a light switch.
That's how our mind was programmed growing up.
So my mother didn't say, go down into the Chinese store.
She said, go to the carry out.
So  if you wanna talk technicalically  yes it- there are different.
Cause you- Okay.
The carry out sells steak and cheese.
They sell cigarettes.
They sell um,    candy bars.
They sell uh-  What else do they- Pizza.
They sell  a variety of things.
It's kind of like,  I tell people- Like, if you go to Northwest, you have these different restaurants.
You have what-  The Florida Grill.
You have  um, Cosis and all this stuff, but when you come to Southeast, all we have is the carry out.
We don't have n-  these restaurants that we're able to go to.
Uh, except what- Do we have a McDonald's?
Yeah, we have one McDonald's  and  a KFC or something like that.
That's- that's all our restaurants that we have over here.
That's why I said gentrification would be good cause we- they can give us these restaurants so we don't have to keep eating this junk food.
Uh,  s-  I'm'a have to say Eddie,  Eddie Lenox,  off of Alabama Avenue.
Yeah.
I don't know.
They chicken just taste good.
I don't- I'm-  They can car- I don't like mumbo sauce.
I never did.
I'm not a sauce person anyway, but no, I don't like mumbo sauce.
Of course it's unique to DC.
Nowhere else.
E- even when I was up there, I said, Do y'all know what mumbo sauce is?
They said, no, we never heard of it.
I brung my friend down here.
He's- He's from Philly.
He ha- The first time he had a steak and cheese, and he had mumbo sauce, he was hooked.
He still talked about it to this day.
He said, I got to come down there so I can get a steak and cheese.
I don't know what it is.
They say it is a  sweet sauce and hot sauce or something like that.
I have no idea what it is.
Yeah.
Uh- Of course the language, the way we dress,  um,  I would say that's about it.
Oh man.
How do I- ca- can I forget go go music?
Okay, growing up in DC right?
We- When we go- When we go to parties or when we go to a club,  we play- we played- I don't- Today is different.
We played go go music.
So, going- going to college,  you would hear uh, Jay Z,  um,  Beyonce, you would hear that stuff at parties.
I'm like, Okay,  this is different.
I never experienced hearing regular rap music at a party before.
So that's how  embedded or  that's how  go go is in DC.
You don't h- You don't hear nothing else.
Like riding around the street, all you hear is go go music.
Go go music is a-  It's a certain type of music where  they repeat-  It's- It's called a call and response music.
Like the beat is this- It's a lot of congos.
That's basically what makes it different, the congos.
I don't- I'm not a go go fan.
That's another thing that-  I don't like go go.
Mm-mm.
As a child I never liked listening to it.
I- I'm not a party person.
I would be in the party  while people was partying to it,  listening to go go.
I like the way the girls dance at go go though.
I do like that.
Uh, that- that would be it, looking at the girls dance to g- to go go.
Uh,  a go go song that stands out to me- I'm not sure who's- who  performed this song, but uh,  when Project Pat came out with uh,  I don't know if I c- Can I say it?
Oh.
Make Your Ass Clap,  and the go go bands redid that song.
That's- that was- that was when I was in junior high school.
Yeah.
That's- that's the go go song that stands out.
Uh, you know- I don't know if y- You- You should know.
They have- they- they had- I don't know if they still have it.
They had the go go parties.
Go go  clubs.
They had go go clubs for kids  called the- You ever heard of the CFE?
This was in Upper Marlboro, Maryland.
They had th- They had the CFE.
I don't renam- remember the names of other go go clubs, but  um, as a child, I'm'a say I was like,  about ten to thirteen years old,  they had a lot of house parties.
They had a lot of house parties where they would play go go.
Yeah, but you know, we- we d- we didn't have clubs in the- in the area.
So that's w-  that's where we have to travel to to go to a club.
D- Whatchu mean, DC area?
No.
I con- I consider DC DC.
When I- If you- if you grew up in DC,  when you go to Maryland, that's Maryland.
You don't- you don't-  you don't say, This is DC.
So, if somebody- Even if it's across the street,  if somebody says,  I'm- I'm about to go to Maryland.
W- I'm'a walk across the street.
If somebody from there across the street, say, I'm from DC, we say, No, you're not.
You're from Maryland.
People from Maryland um,  they will say, No, that's- that's still DC.
We say, No it's not.
Because if you-  If you go to this place,  and it looks- To me, it looks suburban.
Like uh,  what's- what's those areas?
Um, District Heights,  Suitland,  those areas to me, those are suburban.
So, when I would come back home to DC, I see the neighborhoods.
I see how my neighborhoods look, and I go there, okay.
I'm like, Okay, this is suburban.
It's quiet.
You have these s- nice little streets.
But  growing up, grow- g- I grew up so I notice that those are- those are not really suburban areas,  but you have your uh, Largo.
You have your Upper Marlboro.
You have those areas.
Those are more suburban.
But grow- As a child,  to me, no.
Tho- those- You was from Maryland.
Mm-mm.
I- I have no idea.
It j-  I told you.
I- I never knew about Virginia until I started working there.
So I don't know what's going on in- I never knew what was going on in Virginia.
Um,  not- Like I said, when I would think of Virginia, I'd just think of white- white people live there.
I didn't know that  black people lived in Virginia.
I didn't know that until I-  got a- til I got older.