Um,  this sounds like the old interview.
So  and-  From the old interview you'd probably learn more about my neighborhood cause  it was fresher in my mind then.
Um,  I lived-  We m- we moved- my family moved to Second and T Street  Northeast, uh, right across the street from McKinley Tech,  when I was very young, probably about four-  four years old.
And, um,   it was  a neighborhood of  working class people.
Everybody in the n- pretty much everybody in the neighborhood worked.
Um,  single family row houses  and it was a very  very warm,  very collective, very interactive neighborhood.
Everyone knew everyone.
Everyone knew  everyone else's  children.
All the children played together.
We generally played in the alley, that was our playground.
Um,  and on any given day, the kids would be playing in the alley.
Um, the fathers would be out  in the back, in the garages working on their cars,  and, um,  in the evenings,  people would be sitting- In the warm weather, people would be sitting on their front porches.
We moved  to  the Tacoma Park section of DC    when I was  I think in the eighth grade, so  that would have been  sixty six.
Nineteen sixty six,  um,  we moved to  that neighborhood.
My parents wanted, um,  a, uh,  house with a little bit more space.
They wanted a house with fewer steps.
And, um, there was an opportunity, this house came on the market.
I don't remember how the found it.
Um,  and, um,  it was a- it was a split level house  and fairly new at the time.
It had not- it wasn't very old.
And, um,  they got the opportunity to buy it and they- then they did.
So we moved, um,  we moved-  before the school year was out.
It- it- it was actually in- in its own way.
It's a little bit different because the houses were not as close together,  so all the houses  in the- in  the immediate area were detached homes, which was different.
Come in.
They were- the houses were detached, so you weren't qu-  quite as close to your neighbors,  but we still all knew the neighbors.
Um,  the- I was older now so we didn't play in the alley like we used to when I was- when I was young,  and, um,  but I knew all the- the kids around me  and  knew their families.
They- they- they knew us.
Um,  we did not go  from house to house so one of the things that was special and unique about  the, um, T Street neighborhood and- and being there and being there  at a very young age was as kids,  we would  go from one person's house to the other person's house all the time to play  or  if my parents had to be away, one of the other neighbors would babysit and  they'd just have us come over and stay there until  our parents came back and  we'd spend the night and-  at each other's houses and that sort of thing.
And so,  um,  when I got up t-  to the Tacoma Park section of DC,  I was older and we didn't do that kind of thing but the neighbors were still close and everybody was friendly and  we helped out everybody, so in the winter time,  everybody got out and  all the fathers and sons were out cleaning off the snow and  shoveling walks and  moving cars and that sort of thing.
No I have a sister.
Or I had a sister.
I had a sister.
She passed last year.
A year younger.
No, actually.
Growing up we sort of led, um,  very separate  lives in terms of our activities.
Um, she  went to  a public high school.
I went to  the private high school and, so,  we had different schedules and  our schools were  far apart.
And we just had different interest and participated in a lot of different activities.
So I was into sports, she was not into sports.
And, so, I was gone a lot  because of that.
I had the  opportunity to  go to RD-SCHOOL-2- I was recruited,  if you will,  to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  we were at-  we had gone to the same schools up until  that time.
In the ninth grade,  uh, it was a time when the private schools  were, um,  looking to diversify.
And, so,  they were, um,  essentially recruiting, for lack of a better term,  uh, students from  some of the public schools.
I was recommended by, um,  the counselor and principal from  Gordon Junior High School, what was then Gordon Junior High School, to take the test for RD-SCHOOL-2.
And I did.
Initially I wasn't accepted,  and, um,  but they asked me to come back for a second interview and I ultimately  was accepted, so I- I- I went there.
My sister went to  Coolidge High School, which was the high school in our  neighborhood in- in Tacoma Park section of DC.
Sure.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yes.
It was great.
I a-  RD-SCHOOL-2 was a lot of fun.
I had some  fantastic teachers, great teachers,  um, there.
I enjoyed going to- to school there.
It was-  it was a lot of fun.
I enjoyed elementary school, and, um,  the-  I went from there,  um,  to RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High School in the seventh grade.
Um,  I was there for just one year.
My sister was still at- at  Gor- at- I'm sorry, at RD-SCHOOL-2 in the sixth grade.
That summer between  my seventh and eighth grade,  the  DC public school system  relaxed its rules about where you could go to school.
And  now they were allowing  students from other parts of the city  to go to some of the schools west of Rock Creek Park  that were both under-enrolled  and  essentially segregated.
So my-  while I was away in North Carolina my mother transferred my sister and I  to  RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High School,  and so every day we rode  the bus all the way across town  from  Northeast to far Northwest  to go to school.
from  Well, no, it was at- it was really at RD-SCHOOL-2.
It was at RD-SCHOOL-2.
So  going to RD-SCHOOL-2 and then going to RD-SCHOOL-2 for a year,  um,  the schools were  all black  s- in terms of students.
I- There might have been one or two white students there, um, at some point.
Um, but I don't remember.
For- for the most part they were all black.
Um,  the teachers were  essentially all black.
But it was a very nurturing  environment  and, um,  I had great teachers.
They were  accomplished in their own right,  more so than  I realized at the time, in terms of  the experience in other things, educational experience that they had.
Um, and they were well respected of course in the- in the community, as teachers were back in the-  in that time.
More so than now.
Um,  and, so,  it was- it was  a very  encouraging and  nurturing en-  environment,  and  it was the kind of situation where  the- the schools-  the teachers knew all the kids  and  most of their parents as well.
And, so,  if  there was anything going on,  the parents were very much involved in the school.
All the parents went to PTA meetings, and, um,  the parents not only kept track of  what their own kids were doing in school,  but they also wanted to know  what their  friends were doing in school too.
So  when I would go to  Larry's house, who was a good friend of mine growing up,  and it was about report card time  then  I would always get asked about my report card  as well as  knowing that he's been asked his.
And vice versa.
So  everybody was kind of involved and education was a very very important  thing to all of the families at that time because it was a time when  people were starting to  see opportunities evolve and develop,  um, as black people.
Um,  but education-  Everybody understood education was key to  being able to take advantage of those opportunities.
Yes.
S- sixty- sixty six was when- Yes, when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Sure.
Well,  I- I d- I-  s- don't remember specifics but I remember vaguely  that, um,  there were,  um-  We'd get different reactions from students  w- that we enc- classmates that we encountered  in class,  on campus,  versus  out of class  off campus.
And  that- that was the difference.
Um,  it was-  DC was still,  in many respects,  segregated  certainly by communities.
So, um,  my  best friend  was the first student to graduate from RD-SCHOOL-2 High School,  first black student,  to ever graduate from RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
So  that sort of gives you an idea of  that wasn't that l-  I mean it was  a lot of years ago, but  relatively speaking, when we talk about  segregation, people think  beyond that,  and actually it was not that-  not that long ago.
Um,  and  it was mostly because it was sort of de facto segregation in that,  um,  there were very few people who l-  black people and people of color who lived west of Rock Creek Park.
Um,  most,  um, people of color, black people in particular,  lived East of Rock Creek Park,  um, and then certain other neighborhoods  over time were initially all black and  grew and changed and became-  I'm sorry, all white- and then grew and  changed and became,  um,  all black, and  so it- it-  it- it just changed over time.
But it was an interesting  dynamic to see that happen.
And to- and to be part of that, and  some places were more welcoming than others.
RD-SCHOOL-2,  because of the  Quaker philosophy and  sort of the-  the underlying theme of the school  was probably more welcoming  for black students than  some of the other private schools  that were also taking in and re- recruiting and taking in black students at the time.
And we probably, percentage wise, probably had a larger number of black students  than some of our, um,  competing private schools at the time.
Um,  I knew her high school experience was- was different than mine.
We never really talked about and compared the two.
And that's interesting, you should ask.
I- Now that I think about it, we- we- we never did.
I knew a lot of the people that she went to high school with, um,  particularly the guys because I played ball  with them on the weekends and during the summer and that sort of stuff.
Um,   and s- knew a lot of her friends that she went to school with,  when they came by the house and that s- um,  but  th- the day to day kinds of things that went on at the school,  I- I really didn't  talk to her that much.
But I don't think  it was that different  than the experience I had  in  public junior high school.
And, um,   and then as I,  uh, there were a lot of the people that I went to junior high school with  who went on to go to what was then Western  High School,  which is now Duke Ellington.
Um,  some went to Wilson,  and some- some went to Roosevelt,  but I s-  I would kind of keep in touch with some of them, or see them,  and so you had a sense of what was going on in the  DC public schools  as- as well.
So I didn't really  get into  the sort of daily routines of what was going on, but some of the-  some of the social activities I certainly knew about.