Approximately fifty something years.
Yeah.
Ooh.
Okay, I'm from- I was- I originally lived in the Northeast area, which was-  It's C- now Capitol Hill but it wasn't Capitol Hill back then.
And, uh,  it was mostly blacks in that area,  you know, except for certain parts of East Capitol Street or something like that.
You know, it was a little mixed around Stanton Park  and, uh, Latham Park.
But it was mostly blacks in that area, you know, which has- which has changed greatly since then now.
And, uh, houses were, uh, they were affordable there.
And they- at- right- at- at this time they're-  they're ex- extraordinary.
It's like they tryna out- out price black people there.
They're not doing work houses  because they want 'em to go down bad.
They want the people- they want people to move.
Quite honestly, they want 'em to move,  so they can, uh, renovate the buildings and turn 'em into-  turn 'em into townhouses  or tear 'em down and,  uh, put two more floors up on 'em.
You know, this is a new thing they doing now.
They're building everything up in the sky now.
It's like, uh, they don't- I guess they don't think people  are gonna get old  cause the average house- average new house now is at least- at least three floors, with or without a basement.
You know, so, i- you know, as- as people get older- People are buying these houses cause they can afford 'em,  but as people get older, i- they not gonna be able to do all them steps,  you know .
um, so I guess they not really thinking about that, you know.
But it, um- That's just- that's part of the real estate.
And, uh,  the- the- the teenagers- the juveniles, you know, we- once upon a time, we go to house parties, uh, quite-  Well, quite frequently.
And, you know, a few fist fights.
You know, I used to- we used to fight going to school, fight coming from school,  but shit, we- we- we friends the next day, next couple days, you know.
Ain't no- Everything now is pick up a pistol.
Everything now is pick up a pistol, man.
If somebody bump into you or somebody  step on your feet,  that's like in the U Street Corridor,  when they used to have, uh, th- three or four, uh, well known movies- movie theaters back then,  back in the ea- in the sixties, early seventies.
And, uh, they'd have lines out there when they were showing movies,  and the lines would come out the- come out the, uh,  for- the- leave from the beginning of the movie theater sometimes- might go around the corner sometimes.
And there was never no trouble, no fights, you know.
Ben's- Ben's Chili Bowl was back there then,  you know.
But I- Well people- people just got along a lot better.
People a lot more tolerant, you know.
Of course you had crime,  you know, but you- crime wasn't, uh- it wasn't,  uh, as big back then,  you know.
Cause, uh, kids got they ass whipped, you know .
Kid- you know, so that-  that made- that made a difference with the juveniles.
When they got they ass whipped, you know, they know they had to go home or somebody was gonna tell mom and daddy what you did  and you got a whipping.
This day and age, I guess  a lot of parents have, uh-  I'm not gonna say into drugs-  a lot of the fathers are,  and a few of the mothers, but mostly the- mostly the fathers are,  uh and right now in prison.
You know,  so that's why you have single parents, single moms raising kids,  and they doing things they shouldn't be doing,  and hey really nobody's spending time with the kids correcting them, in my opinion.
So the kids are basically raising theirself,  if they not living with grandma,  you know,  cause granddad's dead.
If they ain't live with grandma, and grandma can't handle these kids.
These kids are rough today.
They suddenly a lot of these kids, they, uh- they disrespect the parents.
You know.
But in my day, if, shit- if I told my dad some- something crazy or said something, looked at him crazy,  my dad woulda told me, boy it's time for you to go get out and go pay some rent somewhere.
You know, but this- this day and age the-  the mothers are scared of 'em  cause like I said, the daddy's ain't around.
So the kids are running the house, you know.
But- but even in that day and age, uh,  drug- but there was drugs out here so drugs- drugs is not a new thing.
But people- people are dealing with drugs entirely different,  you know.
Cause back then when- when- when we were selling drugs, or my friends were selling drugs,  uh, there were no- well not a whole lot of killings.
Every now and then somebody had a beef, you know.
You usually whip somebody with your hands or something.
But now, uh,  these kids selling drugs ain't no food- they- they- the ones living at home ain't taking no food home,  they ain't give mom nothing for the rent,  but they're running downtown,  buying them two or three hundred dollar tennis shoes.
They just taking all that money right- right back to the white man.
They keep- they putting it right back in the system but they ain't doing nothing at home.
You know?
But they eating at home and they staying at home,  you know, so I- You know, I- I- that's one of the things that I- I- I do- I really don't like about this generation and  I can't stand to hear- hear 'em when they curse their mom out- they parents.
They talk back to their parents.
I just-  I- But you can't say nothing to 'em,  you know, cause- cause shit these kids- kids- these kids today, , um, a young teenager, they'll shoot you.
They'll shoot you when you try and correct them.
You know, and- and- they don't have no disregard for life.
The- the average kid in this- this day- this two thousand fifteen- the average kid in this day  they don't-  they- they lucky if they live to get twenty.
N- or nineteen or twenty, something like that.
They- thems don't live to get twenty-five.
You know, that's- that's cause the, uh,  the- environment's changed.
Every- every- well everything has changed, you know.
Lifestyles and everything.
And, uh, they just stop going- they just quit going to school when they want to.
And they hang with the boys all day long, doing this and doing that.
So before long, you know- you know .
They gonna get in trouble.
Get that record.
And, uh,    let's see basically it's a new form of genocide now.
In my opinion.
Whereas once upon a time, uh, the white establishment,  not necessarily the white man- white establishment.
They were tryna get blacks-  make sure blacks got a criminal record  at an early age so they couldn't get jobs  later on.
You know, they- well see blacks were unaware of this.
But the white man, well let- he gonna let you break some laws.
But later on, you know, you tryna get a job someplace,  you can't say you've been to jail.
You don't wanna tell 'em that.
When they find out, they getting rid of you.
And right now, this day and age, it's- it's- it's, uh,  ones of us didn't get killed  in the street or in- in Vietnam,  cause I came up in that era,  uh,  it's a new form of genocide now whereas, uh, the white man  or the white establishment, if- whichever way you wanna call 'em-  they, uh- they offering the black women a lot of jobs that they ain't- they had never thought of offering a black man.
But they telling the black women  that when you- once you start making this kind of money,  you don't need the black man no more.
That's- now that's- that's just my- it's a new form of genocide.
They ain't tryna kill us no more.
They ain't never tried to hang us in DC.
You know.
They ain't never tried to hang us here.
But this- this- they j- they just breaking up the black family structure, in my opinion.
You know.
But the Klan is here too.
Uh, the Klan right down there on Beltsville, the Klan still got billboards up.
Yeah the Klan- the Klan is still here.
You know, they haven't gone no place.
You know,  they just- they just got a lot more sophisticated.
You know?
And, um,   well,  but-  but whites moving in different neighborhoods, you know,  and, uh,  Spanish- some Spanish are coming in and everything, you know.
But it really surprised me when Obama got hired we got a-  that presidency, you know.
I said I never thought I'd see that in my d- in my lifetime,  you know.
And  wow.
Uh, like I said, and rent- and rent- well the average- the average black person they can't- we can't afford no houses or  apartments cause the godda- cause the goddamn room will cost you four hundred- four or five hundred, right?
A month.
A room.
Can you say that?
A room?
Shit, that w- that w- should be definitely a house note.
Man, my second wife, yeah, she was talking about paying four hundred dollars-  four hundred dollars or something for an apartment, two bedroom apartment, three bedroom apartment.
I said, man, baby, that's a house note.
We can pay that for- If we can pay that in rent for a apartment,  shit that's a- that's a house note.
And not- it's not now.
Four hundred- four hundred- five hundred dollars, you lucky if you get a- if you get a decent room in a decent area.
And, um,    and they're not treating us any different.
In fact, they treating us worse, but, uh,  the teenagers are causing that.
You know,  it's not all of 'em are bad,  not all of 'em- but definitely not all of 'em are bad.
You got- you got a lot of good ones out here,  but they just some- they don't get no publicity  or no media acknowledgement.
The good ones don't.
Every- but every time somebody do something wrong,  it's like, sh, they can't wait to put that in the news, you know.
Right, break in s- break in a car or something like that, or it's just something-  but  I'm not making no excuses for 'em cause they're doing it,  but-  but the- uh, the media, like I say, they- they won't acknowledge the good things the kids are doing  cause you- cause you definitely have a lot of good kids out here.
And, uh,  and there's some good ones being raised by single parents.
It's just- just not the majority.
Uh.
But a license- you can get your license and everything.
The kids now, they don't need no license, they'll just steal a car.
Yeah,  once upon a time, we h- you had to steal up to four or five cars  even- even if you got caught  before you got a year.
These kids today  they taking a pistol and steal a car  with- knowing keep the keys in there or not, they taking a pistol.
They turned that into a- th- th- That used to be a misdemeanor,  taking a car.
See why would you need a pistol to take a car?
You can steal a car.
But they taking pistols.
They done- they done- they done changed that whole crime.
You know.
And, uh, and like I say, man, far as the murder rate goes, they- they just don't have no- no disregard for life.
Cause they don't feel like they gonna be here long anyway.
So,    we just trying not to be a fact.
Uh- uh, well,  now wh- when I came- Okay.
When I came home from Vietnam they treated us-  well they- they- you know, we- were shunned.
You know, when I came out of service.
We were shunned.
You know, they- they h- it's like we in the-  we did- we went where the country tell us,  where they told us to go.
So, you know, but everybody- but even in this- in this day and age they say that they never declared that a war.
But, uh, and, uh,  I've been through the VA system,  and, um,  they tell me I got the write to Missouri or something, ,  I might can't hear from them in three months.
I say well they could- they can- they can look on the computers and get my records and shit.
Cause I know my- I know my numbers and everything.
They want my medical records, they-  it was discouraging, extremely discouraging,  when you go through something like that with the VA system.
They there- they want you to write    write a letter  to- to Missouri.
They give you the address where you write it, but it's gonna take-  And they can do the same- they can do it on a computer.
They get the same information that you gonna get, but they want you to wait.
So I understand, uh,  what a lot of these injured veterans are going through.
But I can't really sympathize with 'em cause I'm- I'm lucky to be alive.
You know?
I- Cause I went in the service in nineteen sixty eight,  so  I'm- I'm grateful just to- just to be able to get back here.
You know.
So every day- It's a ble- Every day is a blessing- I'm sixty- I made it to sixty seven.
I'm tryna make it to seventy seven.
I'm not giving- I'm not giving up.
I walk by myself all the time, and I-  I'm- I got- I'm p- para- not paranoid about crowds, but I don't go no place where there crowds  cause you never know when somebody is gonna do something wrong.
So  in the crowd.
When you get a crowds, you don't ever-  when somebody's gonna get mad about something  and pull out a pistol.
You know, start shooting or something.
That's my - that's my-  that's my alarm  going off on my phone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, uh, right now, I'm just growing through a thing,  there.
My truck went out on me.
Motor went out on my truck.
I bought a car.
Went to the auction, bought a car.
And, uh,  car's acting up, so I gotta get rid of this car.
I get rid of this car and try and get me- get me another truck.
The car's- the car's running  but, uh, it was a used car, so  it won't make it through inspection I don't think.
I think- I'm not putting too much money in it.
So anyway.
That's just- that's just parenting the experience.
Yup I don't cry about it.
I get up every day.
and, um,  when I walk the dog or go on my little walks,  I p- I pick up cans.
I pick up mm- I'm into recycling things now.
And so, that's what I do.
I- you know what I'm saying.
Cause I'm not tryna steal nothing and I'm not tryna break in nothing.
Yeah, so,  yup.
People see me- people see me, they ignore me.
But it's cool  cause I wanna be ignored.
You know?
Yeah.
Yeah, like I said, I live in the Benning Heights area,  which is- well the part of it's called Simple City.
And, uh,  they- they, uh, executed a boy over there in the- right in the intersection, uh, last week.
So he ran down.
I don't know why they were mad at him, but they ran down on him and shot him.
And people told me he probably coulda got away if he hadn't fell.
But I think he stopped- stopped a couple of bullets so he fell over.
But damn, they just stand over him and finish- and empty the clip now.
You know?
They-  man.
But that's-  but that's what- In broad daylight.
This happened in broad daylight.
Three thirty, four in the evening.
It's a lot of people out there, son, anyway.
No- luckily nobody got hit by no stray bullets, but-  Um.
but that's how things are.
You know, that's- that's- that's the proof of the pudding right there.
That's how it this- this- this life is- this city is.
But this- this isn't- and this is not the worst city.
You know?
But yeah, I was around when they made the, uh-  when the- made the Wizards change their name when the Wizards were originally called the Bullets.
They played in Baltimore.
They played in Baltimore.
They made-  We had killers back then.
Oh, I think that was when the cocaine shit came out.
You know, cocaine or whatever drugs there was  got real popular.
But there's so many killings.
Shootings in DC, they made- they made a basketball team change their name.
But they'd already moved from Baltimore.
It used to be the Baltimore Bullets, then they moved to Washington, so it was the Washington Bullets.
Right, but they made them change their name cause the- cause there's so many killers out here.
So that's-  And that's been a little while.
But, see, things- see, things haven't changed.
Things just got worse.
Hm.
I- I just hope it can't get any- too much worse.
Cause, you know.
Hm.
What do you s- what do you wanna hear about?
Uh, I was in Service, you know.
In the Service.
I was just in the Service.
I don't- I don't talk a lot about that cause I don't-  I don't know.
I don't particularly like, uh,  service movies and things cause they-  cause they- You know, they- you might get a little bit of the truth, but  it appears you don't get a whole lot of the truth, you know.
Yeah.
So, it's-  it was- it was the experience, but it wasn't no good experience.
But, uh,  but I sleep good at night, you know.
I sleep good at night.
I ne- I ain't kill no babies or nothing.
Or shoot no women,  you know.
But it was the experience.
And I don't wake up with sweats or nothing.
So I don't have no,  uh, that Post Traumatic Syndrome, you know.
No PTS, I don't suffer from nothing like that.
Cause I- I just try and live my life right  and don't wor- and don't worry about nobody else.
Now don't try and correct- Definitely don't try and correct nobody else.
If I see somebody doing something wrong,  I ju- I just go ahead and l- and leave, you know.
I'm with a couple friends, and we drinking or something like that,  once some- once somebody start getting loud, that tells me right away that they can't handle their alcohol.
I'm gone then, see.
I don't- I don't stand around.
You know, we- you know, we drink liquor and we drink beer.
You know, a couple friends around, but once I st- once I start hearing a guy get loud after he got a couple drinks in him,  I'm gone.
I'm gone.
Yeah.
Mm.
Okay.
Okay, yeah.
I was raised- yeah, yeah.
I grew up on Chuck.
But, yeah, we used to go see Chuck.
We used to pay three dollars to go see Chuck.
Three- no more than four dollars to go see Chuck.
Shit, when Chuck- when Chuck d- uh, died recently, shit, they was talking about sixty dollars to go see Chuck.
And we used to go see him from ten to two.
Tent cabarets from ten to two, from eleven to three, and sometimes from twelve to four.
At, you know, you know, churches and go gos and  there was- there was hardly ever any trouble.
And they- and he- Chuck was always sold out.
You could always know, you know,  go see him.
You could always go see him.
There was always room, you know.
Ain't it- - places were crowded sometimes  but you know, it's like I said, wasn't no trouble though.
You know.
Yeah.
But  three dollar tickets, nowadays you won't , them days is long gone.
Them days long gone.
Uh,  I've seen, uh,  Junkyard Band and them a couple times in Southeast.
But, uh, like I say, uh,   the prices were different then.
And then, see, uh,  the social areas of changed so much.
I try and stay away from places where there- where there's crowds period.
Like I don't go to the mall.
I don't go down to the mall or nothing like that.
Or million man march, you know, you-  you know, cause we got terrorists out here now too.
So you know- never know when they gonna do something.
So, I- You know.
But, uh,  as far as movies go, we rent- we rent movies now.
We don't go to theaters.
You know,  like I said,  once upon a time, you stand in line,  theater, weren't never no problem.
On U Street.
U Street.
Yeah, they had- Yeah, they have a couple of- Yeah.
A couple of, uh, well known theaters up there.
That's when Chili Bowl- Chili Bowl was up there then too.
The first one.
And, um,  but it- it just the society- society was different.
You know, people tried- actually tried to get along, you know?
Blacks tried to get along with the Whites, you know.
We didn't- you know,  hey, we didn't like 'em, you know, we know- we know they don't like us, we- but we said we try to get along.
So.
But now the black on black crimes is- is terrible, anyway.
And the car jacking thing is terrible.
Uh,  I got- I got respect for the bank man.
Nigga want some money, go in the bank.
Go in the bank.
Yeah, stop- stop robbing- rob- tryna rob a nigga at the bus stop or something.
Metro station.
You wanna rob somebody?
And they rob 'em for telephones.
Shit like that.
Hey.
But I can't imagine how it feels to get twenty years for a tele- goddamn telephone.
You know?
So you took a telephone.
Or- or same thing with a car jacking.
You get twenty- thirty- thirty, forty years for a car.
You know you can't keep the car.
Now sometimes they kill- say, you know, couple times, they kill- kill people out them cars.
Man, you- And they can't keep 'em.
You know, so, I'm saying, so why would you want somebody else's car?
Joy ride for a little while and ride around from the police.
So I don't know.
But for teenagers, I don't know what's on they mind now.
You know.
I have no idea what's on their mind.
Uh, my brother died recently- died from cancer.
He, uh, five years- He's been dead about five years.
That was, uh- I have two sisters in- still in New York.
Uh, I- But I haven't seen them in- in ages, you know.
I have no idea how they are.
And, uh,    my father got killed  when I- I- but I was- At the time he got killed, I was in prison.
I was out- locked up down in Jessup, Maryland.
You know, what you- what they call The Cut.
You know, it's called The Cut cause so many people getting cut in that joint.
But, um, I- he- I was in Jessup when my father got killed.
But he got killed in New York, but that was- you know, that was just a part of life now, you know.
I was just hoping that my mother didn't die til, uh, I got out of prison.
And she was still alive, so  I was happy about that.
Uh, nobody here.
Everybody's moved, uh,  I have, uh, aunts in Baltimore,  and into North Carolina.
You know.
Nobody here in DC.
You know.
Nobody here, cousins, I- you know, first cousins in- in Baltimore.
Say they down in Charlotte, you know, people- people have gotten away from this city,  but then the ones that- But Baltimore's worse than DC.
And goddamn Charlotte is getting just as bad as everything else.
Charlotte's growing up.
And ev- you know, everything- everything that's happening up here is happening down there.
So it's like, you know, it's- ain't no- it's no such thing as-  as moving out of an area cause of the crime.
Cause blacks were doing that  when they started- when they start, uh,  redoing Fort Washington.
Blacks call theyself moving down Fort Washington, with them- th- nice houses, big houses and everything.
Big lots and everything.
But goddamn, they took they kids with 'em,  so they took the crime right down there with 'em.
Right now that's- that's considered a high crime area.
And hell, used to be, you know-  That should be quiet as shit.
Mm-hm.
Uh, they don't talk in sentences.
They don't speak sentences.
They know the words though.
Uh, I'm- I'm a little  flabbergasted about that  cause I- cause I- well  My kids- my kids are grown,  but  they don't convey th- f- th- When you make a sentence, you are supposed to convey a thought.
You know, you are supposed to make complete sentences.
But people,  their dialect- dialects are- are like, in chops,  you know, and  slangs, you know.
And, uh,  you know, it's- it's just the way it is.
You know, it's like- it's- it's like,  you know, I get on my girlfriend about that now.
You- you gotta-   Tryna sound- you tryna sound young and slick.
But y-, you know, I say ask what that means every time she sets down and says something slick.
Ain't no teenager no more.
You're sixty two.
Sixty two.
Oh, Okay, well, very-  Ever since- every now and then back in the day,  well, but personally, I don't curse.
You know, I- I mean I don't- I don't curse often.
And I may curse sometimes but  if I get to the point whereas I curse,  I'm- I'm- I'm reached- That means I reached a point  so I know it's time for me to leave.
Cause it- cause I-  You know, I don't like cursing.
Didn't want my kids to come- grow up cursing.
But, uh,    you know, say- you- you-  you-  Very seldom you hear somebody say screw you or something like that.
But it's shit, the fuck you word is out there now.
It's like everybody think- Little kids is saying it.
You can listen to little kids on the playground.
I mean little kids.
Little short kids, you know.
Like they ten- nine- ten or something like that.
Yeah, they- they starting to curse cause- That's because their parents are cursing around them.
You know.
But you can- you can- An- any playground you wanna go to.
You'll see, them little kids be out there for a few minutes.
You hear 'em- you hear 'em saying some words they- that they shouldn't even know a- know about.
You know.
Hm.
Mm.
I'd tell you pick a- pick a comfortable neighborhood,  and, uh,  uh, make- take- take your time making friends,  you know.
Or going places, you know.
Take your time.
Take your time making friends.
Uh, learn about the neighborhoods before you go in.
You know,  uh,  learn about the neighborhoods before you go in.
But pick a- pick a comfortable place to live, so when you s-  you go- need to leave- you go leave out in the day time, you ain't tryna come back and all your shit missing.
The shit been broken into.
All that.
You know.
Be- be careful about your friends, who you invite around your house, and all that.
You know.
Cause- cause people w- they- they looking around your house.
If- you don't know if they looking around your house and see  what's valuable  that they can come back and get,  you know.
E- especially if they learn how long  your work hours and something like that.
You know, it's just that, you know, th- just take your time.
But- but try and find a comfortable neighborhood.
You know, and- and there's no such thing as  there's no crime in no neighborhood cause crime's every place.
You know.
Huh.
Uh- uh- Uh, let's see.
Yeah, yeah I remember- I remember, uh-  I went to elementary school in, uh- in- in North Carolina.
Part North Carolina and part New York.
But, yeah, I'm- I'm- Yeah I remember sitting down the little girls- sitting down next to the little girls, that's what.
You know .
I remember that.
In, uh, second grade, teacher gave me nickname Snake  cause well she said I was sneaky,  you know.
I'd be sitting in one place, and she turn around I'm sitting some place else.
I was like yeah.
Okay.
Okay, elementary, okay.
Junior high school- junior high school was fine.
I was here.
Uh, RD-SCHOOL-6  That was fine.
You know, I basically got-  Hey, like I said, we- we would fight sometimes, you know, going home-  going to school, come to school, you know.
You didn't get along with everybody, but that- that was to be expected.
Now I ran track-  and I ran track.
I won a- I won a DAR award.
Daughters of American Revolution for cit- for citizenship.
I was a Safety Patrol Boy,  all that in junior high school,  you know.
Uh,  my gra- my grades were excellent.
Yeah.
Um, cause I wasn't dealing with the streets at all, then.
And when I got to high school,  you know, I started playing a little football.
Uh,  I came out the football team because I was- I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
On- on East Capitol Street.
But I was playing- I was playing for the Boy's Club in the neighborhood one time.
Number nine Boy's Club.
And, uh,  and RD-SCHOOL-2- uh, tried to get on RD-SCHOOL-2 team, but they done told me I couldn't play for both.
So, you know.
But I- but I remember my coach in, uh,  in number nine Boy's Club,  he said-  he used to pronounce my name wrong all the time.
But I- but later on, I learned he did that for a reason.
He did that to make me mad cause that motivated me cause I'd be mad cause he wouldn't pronounce my name right.
But that's how he motivated me  to get out there,  you know,  on the ladder and block and all this, you know.
You know.
And  the high school coach, I think he was a little gay.
He used to call huddles too many times .
He's l- he used to love to call huddles.
He wanted everybody to get together and hug.
You know, so.
And, um,  I cam- I- I came out of that because, uh-  Wait, after it- it was football, football.
You- you- I was too tired to go out then.
You know, I didn't- I really didn't have no social- my social life was messed up playing football.
I'd be too tired and too sore.
So then it dawned on me, damn, all the guys in this town, th- they're the ones having fun cause they up there with the girls.
We in here- yeah, we in here beating each other up and everything and  evening time, I'm ready to go home and take me a bath.
You know, eat dinner, that's it.
Yeah.
Um- Uh, well my favorite one was probably my, uh, my Spanish teacher.
Cause, uh,  yeah, well she was real nice looking.
She was real nice looking, yeah.
Yeah I took college courses in high school.
At E- at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah, I took college cou- college prep co- what they call college prep courses.
College preparatory,  you know.
But I didn't go to college cause I couldn't afford to.
Had to get a job, yeah, you know.
As a fact I was working when I was in high school working  got a little part time job,  six to ten,  vacuuming office buildings right downtown.
Down there on K Street.
You know,  so this is- this is back in the sixties,  you know.
Yeah.
But I came out a high- graduated from high school in sixty six.
And I did a long- cause the draft caught me in sixty eight,  you know .
Went right in the Service.
Yeah.
Hm.
Uh, Johnny Boy's- uh, to- to- to me Johnny Boy's on, uh-  It's a barbecue joint  on Southern Avenue-  to- to me, they- they still make the best ribs,  you know.
It w- it w- we had a lot- well there are a lot of rib places in DC, but-  but their sauce, they used to- they call that mumbo sauce.
They used to put it on their ribs.
I still go there occasionally, you know, when I can- when I can afford to, you know,  dip my m- little money and shit, I go over there and get me a slab of ribs, you know, sh- take it home,  share it with my family, you know.
My girlfriend and her son, you know.
Uh.
Uh,  ketchup- wasn't necessarily- but it's probably not actually ketchup in there, uh-  hot sauce,  and it's not really hot, uh,  maybe something mild, you know.
It's spices.
different spices, you know,  make it taste spicy.
Yeah.
Spicy sweet.
Might e- might be A One sauce, you know,  cause it's a little dark.
.
It's- it's more of a combination of things, you know.
Huh.
Uh, yeah, I recon- I recognize accents from most states.
And, uh, you definitely recognize accents from- from- from North Carolina  or some places down South ca- cause- basically because of the words they use.
You know.
Up here, you say something about the street, you know, somebody tryna cross the street,  they'll be saying, uh,  so-and-so need need to get out of the road.
They t- they start talking about the road, yeah, you know, they from- they from, you know, a little further down South.
You know.
Inaudible.
Cause they don't have streets down there.
Everything's a road down there, yeah.
But, uh, recognize upstate accents, you know, New Jersey, Connecticut, New York, yeah, Philly.
They have- they have accents.
You know.
Uh,  at one time I coulda said that, but  the average person you talk to now, and that's- listen.
and that's very few adults.
You know, like I said- I said earlier, they don't-  they don't really speak in sentences, so you wonder  did- did they take English in high school, you know.
You- you- you definitely wonder that,  you know, did you study English?
You know, cause it's- it's-  it's too many slangs- it's too many- it's definitely too many slangs being used.
You know.
And like I said about my girlfriend, she tryna sound slick, you know, but she's sixty two years old.
So you know, sh-  she should be herself.
Stop tryna impress people.
.
Just be yours- be yourself.
Mm.
Well, not- not- not  down the aisle, but I've had all the responsibilities.
And right- right now, the- the lady- young lady I'm with now, I consider- I consider this my fourth marriage.
Cause you know, uh, you know, I'm  helping her- helping her do everything, and you know,  take care of her son.
Her son has autism.
He's in his twenties- late twenties.
He has autism, so I do things with him.
I just took him to the barber shop,  uh, last night.
You know, get him a hair cut.
Uh,  you know, you- you have all the responsibilities of marriage.
Yeah, uh, just walking down the aisle, that doesn't- you know, it's- the other things- it's the other things that call for b-, you know, being married.
When you live with a young lady for six or seven years  or even longer,  that's- you might- yeah, that's a marriage.
So,  yeah.
Uh, yeah, so I've been in common law- common law marriages, I guess that's what you call 'em, common law marriages.
I've been in several of those.
Right- so right now I'm on my-  I'm on my fourth.
Yeah.
Uh, but I have no regrets.
I would marry her if she wanted to.
You know.
She don't want that, so it's cool with me.
Uh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh,  uh- I'm not- uh, me and my sister beefing right now.
We been beefing for a couple years- a year- about a year now.
I was down in North Carolina visiting.
I'm- I'm only gonna be down there for a weekend.
She came home one day and ask- and called in the house and ask me to move my car  well she wanted to park in a certain place in the driveway.
Driveway big as shit.
So I- so I cursed her out about that.
breaking my peace to ask me about a car.
You can park your car- The last- cause the last time- That time before I was there  she had a different-  s- particular parking space  so I'm not blocking nobody in.
I'm not- I'm not parked  in front of the garage  cause I know her mother has to get in the garage  and her- her, uh, stepfather has to get in the garage so I'm not blocking the garage.
You know, but I'm- I'm way back out of the way.
And she got the whole- whole driveway.
A p- I mean b- large driveway.
You know, and she gonna ask me about moving my car.
So she wanted to park in a certain place.
I- I'm getting ready to leave the next day.
So yes, I went- Yeah, I went nutty about that.
You know, she's still- and she's still mad about it, you know.
Which is cool cause she a Gemini.
She's Gemini.
Geminis are crazy.
You know, you- you gotta deal with two twins, the good twin and the bad twin.
But I know all about 'em cause I'm a Gemini too.
So I just ignore her.
You know, if she- if she wanted to stay mad, she can stay mad.
You know.
My- my birthday is June twelfth.
And hers is June thirteenth.
You know, we- we- we different ages, .
Uh, yeah.
But both of us Geminis.
Hm.
Uh, this is- this is my sister in North Carolina.
This is my sis- Well- well-  My mother and her mother are sisters.
Since my- since my mother- She- she- she- she's a first cousin.
But we like sister and brother, you know.
Her- her- you know,  her parents treat me just like I'm- I'm one of theirs.
You know.
Uh,  treat me just like I- just  like I'm one of theirs.
Yeah.
Hm.
Yeah.
Yeah I was.
Yeah.
Oh I had a stroke a couple years ago.
I had a stroke- I had a stroke.
I had lost all the feeling on my right side- my right side.
My right side was gone.
And, uh,  I was- But it didn't hurt.
Uh, it just made me mad cause I couldn't do the things I normally do.
So, uh,  after it dawned on me what it was cause I didn't- cause I didn't know-  I got up in the morning- one Saturday morning,  I'm tryna put my pants on, and I can't put my pants- I can't stand up and put my pants on  cause I'm- it's- it's like I'm drunk.
But I said now I ain't had nothing to drink.
You know I had to sit down and put my pants on.
Then when I fin- when I noticed my speech was slurred,  that's when I knew I had a stroke.
You know, but, uh,  you know, after it-  You know, after I had- I had gotten settled with that thought,  that idea what it was,  the cause of that,  I started purposely doing everything I normally did.
You know, using it and walking,  walking around the neighborhood.
This was right here on Forty Fourth Street.
Uh- uh, Forty Fourth and Dix.
I started- Yeah I started purposely- purposely doing everything I normally used to do.
Well,  making myself use my right hand, you know.
Be walking, make yourself, you know, make me take them steps with that right leg  you know.
Cause legs will be kicking out.
This one be walking straight, and this one be kicking out.
Um,  and the hand was gone.
I had- Man, I had-  yeah.
I had to learn to do a whole lot of things with- with my left hand.
I- You know, I normally do with my right hand, I had to-  I had to learn how to write with my left hand.
You know,  but  w- I use it- you know,  cleaning stuff in the bathroom with your left hand.
You know,  it was awhile before I- before I got it back.
But now, you see- yeah, you see it now.
Yeah, cause a lot of people tell me say some people have strokes.
They don't- they say they don't- they don't get back- get it back.
You know, they don't- yeah, they don't come back.
Yeah.
Uh,    it mighta been four years now.
But, uh,  uh, I got to- I got to the hospital.
It's cause my daughter took me to the ho- I didn't- I wasn't going to the hospital.
My daughter living in Annapolis,  and she wanted me to call the hospital, call an ambulance.
I said I ain't gonna call an ambulance.
I'm not-  you know, I'm not hurting or nothing.
I ain't had no heart attack.
Musta had a stroke, so I-  You know.
So she- she talked me into going out her house out in Annapolis, she take me out in Annapolis.
So I get up the steps, you know, cause I'm   you know, I'm basically walking like  like- like I'm used to using a cane or something and I ain't got no cane.
And while I was in her house, she sneaked and called the ambulance.
She- she called- you know, she called the goddamn ambulance.
It take me to the hospital.
Wasn't nothing they could do.
They run all they tests and everything  but I'm still the same way I was.
So they were trying to keep me in- in the hospital.
So I signed myself out.
Talking about, man, I'm not staying in here.
I- Cause I never wanted to go.
Yeah.
I got about a twelve hundred dollar hospital bill now.
I ain't tryna- I ain't tryna pay it.
You know, from M- Maryland.
I was in Annapolis.
I said nice.
I didn't need to go.
And whatever- You know, that alr- that had already happened.
All I wanted to do was chill out, you know, and- and figure out what I was gonna do.
And I did that.
And, uh,  and I got all this back now.
Uh-huh.
Everything.
Couldn't do nothing- none of that.
You know, hand- stretch your hand like that.
You know.
Uh.
I'm just- I'm determined- yeah I'm determined- I'm determined to make it.
It- you know, I done made it- I made it this far, you know, that's what I'm saying.
I done made it to sixty seven.
I'm tryna make it to seventy seven.
You know where Benning and H is?
Top of the hill?
I just walked from there, me and the dog.
We just walked from there.
Down to Minnesota Avenue.
Yeah.
And I'm- and- I- and I coulda got the- got the bus  because I'm coming down here to go to Western Union  pick up some money.
I coulda caught the bus to go back.
So I'm saying, nah man.
come on, go on.
You know, walk down here okay.
Well I'll walk back.
Walk back, yeah.
My people in North Carolina sent me a few dollars, you know.
Aunt Clara.
I don't get my s- my, uh,  Social Security til, uh, next week.
I  get my So-  money a little short right now.
I get my Social Security next week.
Next Wednesday.
But I'm just running a little short, so, yeah.
Got 'em to send me a few dollars.
But I pay 'em.
But that's a- that's a good walk.
That's a good walk.
Huh.
Yeah.
Well we walked from, uh, Eastern- Eastern and Kenilworth one time.
Huh.
Yeah, cause I was- I just happened to be on that side in the morning.
I spent the night over there  on that side.
I was on that side.
Uh,  fact I was on this- Yeah, I was on this side right here.
And, uh, it was early in the morning,  I wanted a beer.
So the liquor stores in Maryland open at six thirty.
Shit, so I done said- , I walked- no matter where to we have.
Got the dog?
Yeah.
We walk down there.
So, I said, let's- be down there.
Cause the liquor stores open at six thirty.
I'm down there seven o'clock.
I get me a beer.
Come back- we walk- yeah we walk from Ea-  E- Kenilworth and Eastern Avenue,  we walked back up the hill,  back up to Benning Heights.
We walked up there.
But I- Cause I was a little drunk,  intoxicated when I got up there,  but it wasn't a walk.
It was a- I was drinking the whole time I was walking.
So yeah, so.
But I made sure that I- I make sure I get some exercise,  and I make sure the dog get exercise.
Uh, name Maurice.
Maurice.
Uh, since he was uh born.
He's about four years now.
He four years old.
He full grown.
I don't know why my girlfriend named him Maurice.
She must have- she must have a a boyfriend or something- ex boyfriend named Maurice.
Every time she wanna kick the dog in the ass-  Every time she wanna kick Maurice in the ass, she kick the dog in the ass.
I don't know why she named my dog Maurice.
She named him Maurice.
Right Mo?
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
I don't want you.
Okay.
I know you alert.
Yeah.
You alert.
Yeah.
No but DC's a- it's a nice place to live-  live- but it- right now, the thing that's coming up, can you afford to live here?
Can you afford to live here?
You know?
And it looks like Capitol Hill is constantly expanding.
And as Capitol Hill expands, the price of housing  is going up.
You know?
But they just- they taking buildings- they taking buildings and  building high rises and, you know,  uh,  as it get- cost of living is definitely high,  you know.