Since I was born,  which is about  twenty-five, going on twenty-six years.
May fifteenth,  nineteen ninety.
Yes.
In- my mother grew up in Northeast and my father grew up in Northwest.
My mother is currently a barber, my father works for  DC government.
I work at RD-WORK-5  RD-WORK-6.
No.
Yes.
Elementary I went to RD-SCHOOL-6 in Southeast,  for middle school I went to RD-SCHOOL-5 in Northeast,  and for high school I went to RD-SCHOOL-6  in Northwest.
I was a club kid when I was a teen and then I decided that I wanted to continue to work with youth after I graduated, so  I applied and got the job.
Two years.
In Southeast, Washington, DC.
No.
Northeast, which is technically like, five minutes from where I currently live.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
Uh, it was on RD-ADDRESS-2, kind of  connected to another house.
Very old.
It did not have a shower.
Only a tub.
And  it had a basement,  and one floor.
That was it, no upstairs.
Just one floor and a basement.
Two and a half, so  two rooms and a den.
My grandmother,  my mother,  me, and my foster brother.
I have  two  biological siblings on my mother's side, and I have  three biological siblings on my father's side.
Closer to my mother's side.
Yes.
Yes.
My brother and I are  twelve years apart.
Yes.
Yes.
As a kid, RD-NAME-3,  and then RD-NAME-2, and then  RD-NAME-3 and then   just kind of changed like every few years you get a new best friend.
Yeah.
Yeah, basically.
Jump rope, kickball,  skating,    I don't ride bikes, so.
Skate, jump ball- kick- jump rope, kickball  is pretty much it.
No.
So I hung out mostly where I went to elementary school, which is in Southeast which they considered Capers back then.
And it was not safe.
It was shootings all the time.
A lot going on.
But where I lived,  wasn't where I went to elementary school.
But it still wasn't safe.
Was just like,  more older people lived there so it was a little more safe, but  like a block away was like,  where drug dealers hung out at.
So, yeah.
Never felt threatened.
Always just-  If you grow up in the neighborhood you kind of just  used to it, and everybody knows you, so.
It's just like, everyday life.
Well,  if you're-  when I was at elementary school, you didn't really have to say cause obviously you're a younger kid.
But in high school of course you would have to say,  oh this is my friend so and so, and they're like, oh okay, they with you?
Then you just keep it moving.
That's it.
Not you can't come in, but like, they would just look at you funny like where are you from or why are you in this neighborhood or just make you feel uncomfortable by the way that they look at you.
Which is the same if I was to go to somebody else's neighborhood and you would get looks like,  you don't belong here.
So.
Yup.
Mm,  I guess  my grandmother kind of took over traditions from her mother,  cause my great grandmother was still living.
And  so,  every Thanksgiving we would have to do the same thing.
We cook at home, then we go to a family member's house and eat there, but still have food at home.
Then every Easter,  we d-  didn't really go to church,  but since my great grandmother  helped found the Salvation Army church in this area,  every Easter we had to go to church.
It never failed, you had to go to church.
And then on Christmas,  which is the only holiday I liked as a kid, I had the same tradition.
I would get up,  peek, watch my mom put the c-  cs- s- stuff under the tree,  and then I'd wait for her to go to bed then I would get up and go  and get the stuff from under the tree.
And she would pretend  that Santa Claus put it there.
Although I knew she put it there.
It was the same  every year  until they realized that I was too old.
Something's wrong with you.
We are recording.
Well, my grandmother's side of the family, my grandmother's sister has seven children,  and  all of them live in the DC and Maryland area.
So every year we would have dinner at a different family member's house  for Thanksgiving.
So.
Yes but I didn't like it.
Too many people,  they don't know when to go home, you kind of just have to p- stay up really late, wait for the last person to go home,  you have to clean up all the mess.
It's just too much.
Yes  I miss that, those were the good times.
I was twelve, and then one day my mother was like,  oh,  I'm pregnant,  and I'm like six months.
So, she didn't know she was pregnant for a long time.
And then   I wanted a sister and it was a boy.
And then I didn't wanna be a big sister anymore because  it's too much responsibility, you have to learn how to change diapers, you have to learn how to feed the baby,  watch the baby.
He used to roll hisself down the steps all the time.
It was just too much.
But then after a while I kind of got used to it, like okay I have a little brother.
And then  when he was younger, it was good, it was like, okay, aw he's so cute.
Now he's a teenager and I don't like it.
It's too much responsibility.
It's like being a parent  but you're not a parent.
So,  I didn't like it.
at all.
He's thirteen.
exactly.
He will text me  like this weekend,  at twelve AM  aksing for something that I obviously cannot give him at twelve AM.
Or  he will aks for new things when he does not deserve new things.
Like, can I get those new shoes?
Oh but you had three F's on your report card, I'm sorry you cannot.
But he knows not to aks my mother because she's gonna say no.
So he thinks that I'm the best option.
No.
It's irritating.
He will call, he texts,  he wants to be up under me, I'm too old for this.
I don't have time.
Then he wants to argue with me like he's my father.
Why?
Why?
So, yeah that's irritating.
And then he bothers my little sister a lot,  which makes her irritated, which makes me irritated,  which makes my mother irritated.
Now everybody's just irritated.
She's ten.
And she thinks she's twenty-five, like me.
She's very  interesting.
She acts like me a little bit when I was a kid, which is kind of annoying cause you look back,  you're like, oh,  was I that annoying as a kid?
That's kind of sad.
But  she was a tomboy for like, majority of her little youth and now she's getting kind of girly.
And it's scary cause she wants to wear like, skirts and leggings and  I don't like it.
Cause she's kind of  growing up  into a little lady.
I don't like it.
Nope.
But she's always under me.
She wants to live with me which is the biggest issue.
She told my mother  that when she turns sixteen, she's coming to live with me.
But she never aksed me  if that was okay.
So I don't know how she plans to do that.
But apparently in six years  she'll be living with me in whatever family that I have, maybe.
She's gonna be living there, she'll be my child.
I don't understand.
I will not.
No.
I'm more strict than my mom, I don't even know how that happened.
Cause I had a very lenient childhood, but it's different now so I feel like  I have to be more strict.
She'll aks to do stuff, I'm like no,  can't do that.
Nope.
My little brother he's like, can I go to the movies with my friends on the weekend?
No.
Can't do that.
It was just a shooting up the street,  over the weekend in broad daylight, and you wanna be going out with your friends to hang out.
Nope,  can't do it.
Like,  I at my brother's age could-  I did go to the movies, go to the mall, just hang out with my friends and not really worry about, oh something might happen or,  you know.
But now,   literally kids are getting jumped,  kids are getting like, assaulted, kidnapped  more frequently than I feel like it was happening when I was his age.
So I just feel like you have to be more cautious of the things that they are doing because  even in our area like,  the little girl Relisha Rudd, she's the same age as my sister,  and she went missing.
That kind of hit home cause I was like, oh my goodness like, they're the s- she's the same age as the kids I work with.
And  the place like, Kenilworth where they were like, looking for her whatever, I was living right there during that time.
So it's just kind of like, you think about the area and you think about  what the kids are doing, and it could happen to any child.
So you have to be-  I know they're like, you're overprotective, but  you kind of have to be overprotective cause a lot more stuff is happening.
Like, adults are  talking to children,  know they're talking to children, so.
It's just a lot.
And then with social media you can't trust anybody.
And my brother talks to people on social media.
Because they wanna like, make friends that they don't know, and you're like trying to explain it to them why you can't do that cause it might be an adult.
But of course,  I remember when I was younger and I did some of the same things.
And now I'm thinking about it like,  girl, what were you thinking?
No, you don't know none of these people  you was chatting with in Florida.
You didn't know if they was a teenager or not.
But now that I'm older I'm like,  I have to tell them not to do it, but I understand why they're still doing it cause I did the same thing, but still.
It's just a lot different.
And then when I used to work in mental health,  I had a client that was in, um, sex trafficking,  so  that's like- She was around the same age as my little brother is now.
And she was like, taken under the wing by like a older person  or whatever,  and put into sex trafficking and she didn't even know what was going on.
So it's like, anything can happen.
That happened right in our area, so.
It just like, you gotta be more careful what's going on.
Before I came to RD-WORK-4 I worked for organization that, um,  they basically partner with,  um,  health insurance companies to make sure that their outpatients  goes to like, doctor's appointment and get community involvement and like, services.
So,  I worked at a day program before that, so probably for like,  three years between the day program and then  working for the other organization,  so.
It was a interesting experience.
Very.
Elementary school I feel like was fine.
I feel like  I just-  I learned a lot before I started school.
So that kind of helped.
I had cousins that were older so I already knew how to read, write,  I knew how to write in cursive before I started school, I knew how to add and stuff like that.
So I feel like  that kind of helped me.
And I didn't really  see the, oh DC schools are bad, or they don't learn anything, because  I learned stuff.
So I didn't have a problem with- So elementary school  was pretty much okay.
Although I did get bullied.
Then I kind of turned into a bully towards the end of elementary school because  I used to get bullied.
So,  other than that I feel like  it was fine.
All my friends went to the same school, I didn't have no  issues.
My family went to the same elementary school as me, so  that was kind of okay.
Middle school,  I ended up having to go to  middle school  away from everybody that I went to elementary school with.
Cause I started going to school in my own neighborhood and that was a big change.
I just felt like the kids were different and it was a lot.
They had a boy there who was eighteen in the eighth grade and I was trying to figure out how he was still in middle school.
Then we found out he was actually fifteen, he was lying about his age.
Why, I don't know.
But  I was in like the head class there, I got straight A's all the time.
I felt like I wasn't challenged there.
That was the only issue, like  everything that we did I was like, okay when are we gonna do something different?
So because of that,  I decided to go to RD-SCHOOL-3  which is a academic high school.
I kind of regret going to RD-SCHOOL-3 now because  even though I wasn't challenged in middle school,  RD-SCHOOL-3  challenged me on a whole nother level like,  I  was so stressed out at that school because  people had came from private schools, and they were coming from like,  charter schools and schools that had  better curriculums than what I had when I was in middle school.
And I could not keep up at first.
I was like, I don't understand how people are surviving.
Homework every night,  in middle school I barely got homework.
And at RD-SCHOOL-3 you literally had homework from every class  every night.
So that was a different experience.
I learned  that I could do a paper in about  three hours  and get a B.
So that was one of the main things that I took away from that like,  my procrastination skills  definitely  got tested going there.
But I will procrastinate  through  a paper in a heartbeat if I'm going there, but.
It was different, but our teachers had like, PhD's and everything, so it really prepared you for like  life skills versus  having to like just sit in a classroom.
They had  no sports though  which sucked.
We didn't have football team, we only had JV basketball,   track, cheer,  soccer, and  dance.
That was it.
Everything else was academic based.
So it was like, chess club, Spanish club, French club.
Nobody wants to be in any of those things like, especially when you go to school all day, you have to see these teachers all day.
They had art club which was learning  about  art.
Not doing art.
So no one was in the art club.
They had music club but no band.
Why do you have music club?
There's no band.
We didn't even have instruments.
We had music with no instruments.
We learned notes  and that was it.
It was like a waste of time.
I did play the clarinet in middle school though, and I wanted to play the p- clarinet in high school but we didn't have any instruments.
So it was a waste of time.
Just sat there and listened to the teacher.
I did pep squad when I was in high school,  so.
In elementary school I was a cheerleader and a dancer, and then in middle school I danced but not for school.
And so when I got to high school I was like, I'm gonna do something.
So I was on the pep squad.
It was fun,  but it was like a rivalry  dance team against pep squad.
I don't know why.
They do s- c- s- two completely different things.
But there was a rivalry.
And I dropped out in twelfth grade because it was just too much work.
They wanted me to be the captain and they wanted me to graduate, I couldn't do it.
So I quit.
And graduated.
I was like, I have to take  option- And I was working too, I couldn't do it all.
It was too much.
So I quit my job and the pep squad so I could graduate on time.
Cause at RD-SCHOOL-3 if you are failing, they kick you out.
People try to make it seem like they have that one hundred percent graduation rate,  mm-mm.
In tenth grade, we went from having a hundred and ten  people in my class  to about eighty something.
And we graduated with seventy-four  because if your grades were like  not up to par  or they felt like you were going too much against the- what they wanted at the school,  they would kindly aks your parents to remove you.
Which was really  they were putting you out, but not saying they were trying to put you out.
So,  people don't know that, but that's really how it is.
So I didn't get along with the principal at all.
She didn't l- she wanted me to leave, I was- refused.
I got all the way to twelfth grade and she wanted to kick me out.
Nope, I'm gonna graduate from here.
So it was a struggle,  but I made it.
Yes, Miss RD-NAME-2.
She was my algebra teacher in ninth grade,  And I never took her again.
But even to this day she was my favorite teacher,  from high school.
Cause she was really good at teaching math, I don't like math at all.
And  I aced her class.
I don't know how.
She was just that good of a teacher.
She had  aftern- Even though she had five kids she still managed to  tutor after school,  and come to school a hour early in the morning  if you needed a-  extra assistance,  she would sit with you at lunch time.
So she was a really good teacher.
But in middle school,  I had a teacher named Miss RD-NAME-2, she was my science teacher.
But  she hosted a poetry club and I like to write poetry, so me and her got really close.
So we're- even to this day like we still talk,  and stuff like that.
And we like, share writings,  so.
Other than that  teachers are just  left behind in the wind.
Yes but I don't share.
I did share at the, um,    Torch Club when they had the poetry night here a few months ago.
Like a month ago maybe.
Yeah.
I shared a poem  with the kids, they were really shocked.
I just write it and keep it in journals, and I don't like to speak  publicly, so  I just never recite.
I only did it that day because my sister  is president of Torch Club and she was home sick.
So she aksed me could I  say a poem, I was like, okay.
One poem, that's it.
I had to do it for her.
Yes.
Being a club kid?
It was interes- So I was a club- by the time I became a club kid I was already a teenager.
So I was in ninth grade.
And  actually they placed me here for community service at RD-SCHOOL-3.
So  at first I was just coming I was like, okay all I have to do is go here, volunteer,  go home,  I don't have to do anything else.
But,  at the time,  I think the program director,  yeah,  RD-NAME- 4, he was the program director at the time when I was a teen here.
So they didn't have no teen director.
They barely had any staff.
But I- he was acting as a teen director somehow.
So he would like aks us to come in  on days that we didn't have to come in and do stuff.
And then he wanted to start Keystone.
And he aksed us to start it so that he can get the other kids involved.
I'm like, okay.
We can do it.
Get these community service hours,  start the Keystone.
So,  m-  I came here with like,  probably eight or nine of other RD-SCHOOL-3 students, and we were all close cause  our school's really small.
So we started  that, and that's how I ended up  becoming a member  outside of being a volunteer.
Cause even when I left and I wasn't volunteering here anymore I would still come  sometimes.
So,  I was the first Keystone president.
That was exciting,  being in leadership.
But none of the club kids liked me.
So it was kind of like-  It was RD-SCHOOL-3 kids versus neighborhood kids, even though technically  we were neighborhood kids too.
But they treated us different, so it was like, y'all are nerds,  and we're regular kids.
So they would like, tease us and like,  try to mess with us.
I almost got jumped before at this club.
That was the worst experience ever.
And then I got thrown on a pool table by a boy.
Those were like,  the only two negative experiences that I had here, so  I didn't come for like, two weeks.
I was like, nope I'm not going back.
I'm being bullied.
And then  RD-NAME-1 suspended the people  so I came back.
I got to go to Minnesota,  which was the first time I ever flew anywhere.
So that was my first Keystone conference.
Actually yeah, so we had a regional one it was here,  in DC.
And then we got to like stay at a little hotel.
But we went to, um, Minnesota and we got to go to like, the Mall of America,  and all of that.
We got to meet people  from all over.
So that was like the best experience.
Cause number one,  I had never flown  in a airplane.
And then  I had never got to like, really go out of state without my family,  so that independence.
My mother was terrified, she's like, you're gonna have to go and  there's only gonna be two chaperones.
I'm like,  get over it, it's gonna be fine, like  gonna have fun.
Got to stay in a hotel with my friends and  do stuff, so it was fun.
That was like the best experience that I got.
And I tell the kids all the time like,  I got to go to a Keystone conference, they're like, no you didn't.
I really did, and it was fun.
So.
That was the best.
And then,  oh, we used to have, um,  parties, which they don't do anymore.
They don't allow us to have  teen parties anymore.
But we used to have teen parties all the time.
Those were fun cause you got to invite all your little friends that don't live in the neighborhood.
And then if you like somebody,  you could invite them  and nobody would know  that you were hanging out with them.
?
they  thought they were a regular person coming to the party.
So,  that was like, sneaking behind your parents' back,  doing what you wasn't supposed to do.
But in a safe environment at the same time.
So,  those were like,  the best times, just  being away from my mother and not having to  deal with her clocking my every move.
So.
Mm.
I don't know how  people did it back then.
I was very confused when I start- cause I work  mostly with the younger kids so it's like-  When I was a teenager I didn't interact with the younger kids a lot so I didn't really know how the programming and everything was ran and stuff.
But now,  it's v-  a lot different.
You kind of know why they're telling you-  they weren't telling you not to do this, you can't do that, X, Y, and Z.
But I feel like the kids are a lot different than when I was younger.
Cause we really just- we came to the club, we  play in the gym.
Like,  I had my first summer job here, so.
You know, it's summer you would work and then  during the school year you would just hang out with your friends.
These kids wanna do  everything  but  just hang out.
They wanna gossip, they wanna fight, they wanna do this, they talk about people on social media.
I'm like,  did I do that as a kid?
I ca-  It's like, you kind of try to remember, was I like that as a child?
And then some of the stuff  I really did used to do, but I can't tell them that I used to do that.
I have to act like I was like, okay,    as a child I did not do that because that's not the right way.
Sometimes you have to snitch on yourself, but  it's just a lot different.
Especially dealing with the parents.
And my mother was a little   one of those hectic parents.
Very overprotective and all of that.
So being on the other end I just tell my mother all the time like, you have to ease up because those workers  trust me,  they're going home very stressed out.
So, it's just like you look at it from a different point of view.
Cause my mother would be like, oh my god, you're at the club so late  are you really doing X Y and Z?
And now we- I have to be the one that tell the parents, they really are in the program, you can calm down, they're gonna be safe.
So I just have to second think like, if- whenever I have children I know  if they're going to Boys and Girls Club or something similar like,  be understanding of what the staff are going through with your children.
Or with kids in general, cause it can be really stressful,  so.
I didn't think it was that stressful.
I really didn't think that the staff did much of anything when I was younger.
I'm like all they gotta do is watch us do  this.
You know,  bring some people in to run this program, talk to us a little bit.
No, it's stressful   at times.
It's like, you enjoy it but then you still have to  go home and think, okay  didn't work out this time.
Let's do it better next time, and how am I gonna do X Y and Z?
So like,  it's a lot different  being on the other side.
But it's like, the best of both worlds at the same time because you can tell the kids like, I can relate to you cause I was in the same program, or I did this when I was younger, maybe y'all should do it this way, or  change it up  a little bit,  so.
It's a interesting experience.
Not as fun as when I was a teen.
Like,  wait, cause when I was a teenager I just thought I was like, having all the fun in the world.
It's all these people I get to go and do this.
But then as an advisor, you gotta keep track of where these kids are going, you gotta feed 'em, you gotta make sure they doing this right,  check behavior.
And then at the same time you have to make sure you're networking and getting something out of the conference and  keep it updated  what's going on, so.
I think that  it was ran differently when I was younger, so I didn't know that they kind of change it every year.
But  for me as an advisor I feel like the networking part was great because you get to kind of see what  other clubs are doing, how you can bring that back to your club.
But when I was a kid I really thought  it was like  the advisors were having just as much fun as we were.
I was like, they gotta be having fun.
We having fun, we  meeting all these new people and stuff, but  they probably were not.
Because  we- I only took three from our club,  but I think all together  with  Alloy Achievers and then with Hilton we had like fourteen kids with us  all the time.
When I went as a teen I wanna say we had-  it was like four of us in a room and three, so it was like maybe ten.
Trying to keep up with that many kids, that's exhausting.
Everybody wants to do something different.
But you have to make sure you know where they are, what they're doing, what time it's over so that you can meet back up with them.
And they're hungry all the time.
All the time.
So,  I thought back to how much I was eating as a child and I remember  one time  we were in the room at the Keystone conference when I was a teen, and we kept  aksing  Miss RD-NAME-1   she had went with us,  kept aksing her can we go get snacks and she's like,  y'all just ate dinner can you please just, you know, relax, I'll get you guys some snacks.
And then they did the same thing to me when we were on the conference, and I was like, oh my god, now this is what she was going through.
She wanted to sleep  and we were aksing for snacks.
And now I wanna sleep and they're aksing for these snacks.
And you don't get any sleep.
See, as a teen you're like, oh I get to stay up late at night,  party, you know, hang out with my friends.
And as a advisor I literally got like four hours of sleep every night  or less.
And it was not okay.
I was tired.
So I thought it was a lot of fun back then.
But now I'm like,  it's a lot of work.
It's- you get something out of it but at the same time when you come back you're like, you need a whole day of sleep.
But you gotta come back to work at the club.
So.
I think it was best-  definitely both experience were interesting and they were definitely- I got something out of both.
But if I had to choose one,  I would be the teenager there cause I feel like you don't have as much responsibility, you kind of can just  go with the flow of things and don't have to worry.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Like,   where I grew up at  is Northeast but  it's considered the Southeast Northeast part.
So people consider it more quote unquote ghetto  than  the Northeast that's closer to Northwest.
So-  And I know a lot of people don't think about that but  in my mind Northeast is like two-  it's two parts.
There's like,  Northeast over here near Minnesota Avenue,  and then there's a Northeast that's near like,  where they built the Costco at  and all of that.
Cause it's-  it's still Northeast but it's a different atmosphere like when you cross over you're like, oh my goodness, like  what?
So in Southeast, I did live in Southeast  for a while with my grandmother,  like as I was an adult.
I did not like it  at all.
It was always crime, all the time, and then people never went in their house in the summer.
You will always be hearing something.
I live very close to  the hospital,  so the ambulance and the fire department all that they used my street to get there, it was just too much noise.
Versus where I used to live,  it was noise but it wasn't  as bad, it was kind of like you get your quiet time.
But then when you go up Northwest,  Georgia Avenue is-  I don't know how, people are like obsessed with Howard University  and they don't realize that it's smack in the middle  of like  crime and drugs.
When I went to high school at RD-SCHOOL-3 literally you walk down the street  you see people selling drugs but then you see college students.
You're like,  okay it's a nice mixture here going on.
I mean, now, they've kind of like build up the area so it's a lot different.
But  then it was just like, okay.
But  it was  in one little area on Georgia Avenue.
In Southeast it's everywhere.
You got MLK,  then you got Malcolm X, then you go to Anacostia station, Congress Hei- It's like  stuff is going on everywhere.
And I actually had my first like  real experience of  not being involved in a crime but kind of witnessing a crime.
I witnessed somebody get robbed and I was just like,  um, gonna act like I did not see anything, I'm gonna go in the train station and tell somebody because I did not wanna get involved.
So it kind of gives you that  feeling like you can't really  trust what's going on around you in certain parts of the city, versus others.
Cause even-  I guess because I grew up in this area I feel a lot more safe, like I know a lot of people in this area.
A lot of people I went to school with they still live around here or their families or  whatever the case may be.
But when you go to a neighborhood you're not from it's just like, a different atmosphere.
And when I went to Northwest,  everybody has houses.
All my friends I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 with for the most part  grew up in houses that their parents own and everything like that.
And then compared to when I was in middle school everybody is renting.
Or- Of course you don't think about it when you're younger but as I got older I'm like, okay,  something's not right.
Like they're really- they have yards  and everything, dogs, full families  things going on.
And then where I live it it's just like,  what is going on?
Apartments, people hanging out on the corners all night, like you can't really,  you know,  do what you wanna do cause you're worried- Like my mom used to always to be like,  you gotta come in before dark.
Why?
Because something might happen.
And  now and I understand that but back then I'm like, nothing's gonna happen.
Just let me be out too.
But now I'm like, no, I'm glad I did go in before dark cause something could've happened.
So the city's just different all over.
Now,  I guess they're building up in every different area, but  Northwest is completely different.
Every time I go there it's a new building or it's  some condos, it's stuff that you never used to see.
So,  the demographics changed and then the look of everything has changed.
But  in this area over here I feel like it's somewhat the same.
Even though they did put the DOES building right there  by the Metro.
It didn't change anything.
It's still pretty much  to me the same neighborhood, same people,  same stuff going on.
So, we kind of got left on the side  over here.
Whereas Northwest  and even Southwest, cause when you go to Southwest  it used to be- So where I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 right down the street is Southwest.
It used to be  all  urban community.
Like  no gated up,  you know, envi- communities and all of that, everything was pretty much looking tore down and raggedy.
Now,  it's condos everywhere.
No townhouses though which I don't like about DC because  houses are disappearing, nobody's living in houses, everybody's in a condo, big apartment building, whatever,  But I think the city  overall is changing, but  some of the city is getting left to like  kind of fiend for yourself at this point.
Cause you can't afford to stay in your-  your neighborhood but at the same time  they're pushing you to stay in that area because you can't afford to stay  elsewhere.
So,  I don't like it, I think it's time to move.
Mm,    well, when I was  a kid, probably-  I wanna say I was in middle school when both of these incidents happened.
So where I went to elementary in the Capers area,    there was a time where they were having like, neighborhood rivalry with  Southwest, so it was just like a lot of shootings and stuff going on.
And one day I was just walking cross the little courtyard,  minding my own business,  And somebody just started shooting in a building.
And my aunt cause she stayed in the window being nosy,  like, pulled all the kids into the building, we're all like, waiting  to figure out what's going on.
Nobody had got shot but  it was just the fact that it happened right there like across from where my aunt lived at.
And then  probably  a few months later,  I wanna say it was the same year, a few months later.
We were having like- on Mother's Day,  the- they were having a big cookout.
So we're walking- me and my friend, we're walking over to the cookout,  and  this guy  that we know from the neighborhood  he was just talking to us, we're like, hey, you know, da da da.
He was like, run.
And we're like, what?
Why are we running?
He was like, run.
And then  a car- we look back and a car just slows down, and like you can see the man pulling a gun out the window, I was like, oh no.
So we run.
And  nobody  knew what was going on.
Like,  everybody's running, nobody knows who's shooting at who, who trying to- they're trying to get,  and they just start shooting each other.
So those two incidents,  even though I was younger.
And I feel like  it didn't really change the way I felt about my neighborhood because at the time I'm'a be like, I still live around here, or I- I hang out there, I went to school there, et cetera.
But it just gives you a different  outlook on what could happen to you at any moment.
Because  I didn't think it was that violent around there.
Even though people thought it was violent, to me it really wasn't.
It was just like, oh, you know.
Incidents happen everywhere, people get robbed, people get shot  everywhere around the city.
But during that time it was like, high crime around there.
So,  those two incidents I was like, oh no.
So of course my family was like extra paranoid after that, they're like,  keeping all the kids inside, you can't go out and play  unless you're with an adult, you can't go to the playground, it was just like  really hectic for a while.
So.
But those are the only really two incidents where I felt like, really unsafe.
And those both happened when i was  in like, middle school.
Yeah.
Yes.
I just wanna experience living somewhere else.
And then it's so expensive to live here now.
You can't even  live comfortably without  really thinking about,  okay, I gotta pay  all this money for rent, gotta pay all this money for food,  for this, for Metro, X, Y, and Z, so.
I do wanna move, cause I didn't go away for school, so I feel like I just kind of been stuck h- Even though I have traveled.
But it's different living somewhere else than just visiting.
So,  I think  like,  people like, you're in your prime time, you can do it now, you're not married, you don't have kids.
I'm like, okay,  soon.
But I don't like change that much so it's like,  I really have to get up the nerve to just go and do it, but it- it's takes- it's taking me a long time.
Cause I'm been saying this for like, two years now,  maybe three, that I'm gonna move out of DC.
I really wanted to live in Florida.
I don't know why I just really like warm weather and beaches.
So,  Florida,  Georgia, but not in Atlanta because when I went there it was just too much going on.
Maybe if I lived on the outskirts,  you know, and I could visit the city.
It's a lot like DC  but just-  I don't know, it's a little more country  down there  than here.
And I-  my friend moved to Charlotte and she was like, it's so nice, you know, it's-  come up city, et cetera.
So,  once I go visit,  then I can decide if that's gonna be on my list.
But,  I definitely wanna go down, I don't wanna go anywhere where it's gonna be cold all the time.
Like New York.
It's too busy there.
And it gets really cold.
I don't like cold,  at all.
My uncle wanted me to come live in Seattle  with him and his family.
I was like, no.
I will visit in the summer.
No one wants to live where it's gonna be snowing all the time.
Nope, or rain.
The rain.
I don't like it.
I don't like rain,  at all.
And he's- every time he calls me he's like, it's raining here.
I don't wanna live where it's always raining.
Like, you can't even do anything, it's always raining.
So.
For right now, Georgia and Florida are like at the top of my list.
But  I like North Carolina.
I have been but  their neighborhoods are a little sketchy.
You really gotta  pick wisely  where you gonna live.
Cause even though it's cheaper it's real sketchy.
I don't like it.
It's th- I'm seri- It's not like back roads, like people think,  oh it's the country.
No it's not.
They have those little neighborhoods just like we have in DC and it's not looking right.
My friend took like a picture of her first apartment  and like outside, I was like, where do you live?
Is it the hood?
Cause I feel like you live in the hood.
Cause it was people  everywhere.
I was like, why are there all these people?
She's like, oh they're just hanging out.
Doing what?
They don't have jobs.
Nothing just hang- like outside of her apartment building, people were just sitting on the s- steps and  just not doing anything, and it was like the middle of the day, I'm like, okay.
Then it was the buildings were all like, looking run down.
I was like, you need to move.
I'm like,  I'm not coming to visit you until you move.
And I still haven't been cause she says she's not moving until the end of the summer.
When you move,  I will come visit you.
I don't like sketchy.
I don't even go to some parts of DC.
So I'm definitely not going to a sketchy place in another state.
No.
Mm, now that I'm older I guess,  I like to go to bars and lounges.
I hate clubs.
Don't like them at all.
So like, H Street, U Street are usually like my go to places to go.
But I'm a homebody so I really don't like to go out that much.
I don't.
My friends like, you wanna go?
Nope.
I don't wanna go.
Then I have to spend money.
And  get  cute, they wanna get dressed up.
I don't wanna be the only one that's not dressed up.
So then I have to get dressed up.
It's too much work.
So whenever I do go out, most of the time it's for a special occasion,  or I'm actually going out of town.
That's the only time that I really like to go out  do stuff.
I think for me H Street  I probably witnessed the most  because  I've had to ride that X two line a lot in my lifetime.
And I like the change.
I feel like  for me,  this area on this side has never really had anything like that.
So it's like,  Usually when you would have to like, go out, go have fun,  stuff like that, you would have to go uptown  or downtown.
Versus just having to go across the little bridge, and, you know,  enjoy yourself.
So, I like the change  but  I remember one incident.
So when we had the Keystone conference here in DC when I was a teen,  and  we  did a community service project here at this club.
And  we came from the hotel and we brung like kids on a bus  back to this club and we're driving down  H Street.
And there used to be this big daycare.
Of course H Street back then looked really run down, it was like  nobo- it looked sketchy.
Everybody's doing everything, it's just liquor stores, torn down buildings and  stuff like that.
So,  we're driving and a little girl was like,  oh my god, who would send their baby to that daycare, this is just so ghetto.
And I'm like, oh my god.
Because in my mind I'm like, this is my neighborhood like, she really thought-  Cause I didn't think it was that bad, I'm like, that's a really good daycare, like I know somebody who kid go there.
Like the daycare was really good, you know.
But  hearing somebody else say that you're like,  oh.
But now it looks completely different and like,  I think the look of things on the outside is really what changes people's minds.
Because honestly,  that's just like this RD-WORK-4.
If it looked really run down, people would never bring their kids here.
They're like, mm-mm,  no.
But we could be doing the same exact thing we're doing right now,  but because of what it looks on- like on the outside people would never go.
And I feel like that's the same thing for H Street.
They had  stores and they had, you know,  some little restaurants and stuff like that around there but people would never go  because  it was H Street.
And it looked like a place you didn't wanna be caught, you know, just out and about  at a certain time.
But  now,  everybody wants to hang out at H Street.
Some of the stuff is- been there for a long time.
There's one bar there.
I didn't even know they  been open that long.
Maybe because I didn't drink for a long time in life, but.
He was like, oh yeah we've been open for  over ten, fifteen years.
I was like, really?
He's like, yeah even when, you know, it was considered a bad neighborhood.
I was like, oh I never knew  that you were here cause I would have never came to H Street to hang out.
So- but for U Street  I don't know, I didn't really watch U Street  evolve.
But  a lot of the change there is kind of still happening because some of the older clubs now they've like,  closed them and they're remodeling.
They're still doing a lot of like remodeling and stuff on-  on U Street, so.
I think for the most part  to me it's always been like,  the same  minus  the condos  that are everywhere.
But I like Busboys and Poets so I go to U Street a lot.
I've been to both of those.
I went- The K Street one,  one of my friends hosted like a big poetry event there, so I really like it cause it's bigger, and  it's really nice.
The Hyattesville one I went to,  obviously I go to a lot of poetry slams, I went to a poetry slam there.
And  it was like in the little back room.
It's smaller  than the K Street one.
It's-  it's-  to me it actually seems a little smaller than the U Street location.
But maybe it's because their little back room is like,  so little where the event was held, it's a lot smaller than the other two, but  it was nice.
I think  the demographics for who goes to each one is a lot different.
Because when I went to the one in Hyattesville,  we- the only black people that were there  were the ones that were back there in the poetry event.
It- we were the only- I mean, it was like a room full of people but it was still like, we're the only black people in here.
And we're all at this one event.
Versus like on U Street you get a nice mix of like, different people  at all the different events and stuff like that.
And like, K Street  I think it really depends on the night for them, like cause they host different stuff on different nights.
But   I like the U Street location, that's my favorite.
And they have the best grits.
I just really like those grits.
So that's my- Yup.
Cause my- once my grandmother passed away in two thousand twelve like,  I don't like how I cook grits, so I don't cook grits, so it took my a long time  to go somewhere else  to eat grits.
So I was like I wanna try  grits at different locations until I find the ones that I like.
And the  Busboys and Poets just happened to have the grits that I like.
I would say my favorite hang out spot  is Alero's on U Street.
Yeah,  they have really good margaritas.
Their happy hour is  like, the bomb.
Even though I work til eight PM so I never get to go to happy hour other than the summer time.
And this week.
Yeah.
I might go.
I'm preparing to go on a cruise, so.
I probably won't go.
Cause I haven't packed or washed clothes or purchased everything that I need.
So I probably won't.
But-  like when we get off early, of course I can go.
But for the most part,  Alero's is like, my favorite like, hang out spot.
Cause especially in the summer they have the outdoor part, and then at night  it doesn't- it's not just like-  they have- they turn half of it into like a little, um, club or whatever at night time  on some Saturdays and stuff, so.
I liked it there.
But if I'm gonna sit down and eat somewhere,    I like Busboys, I also like Ben's next door.
I do not like Ben's Chili Bowl.
I don't know why people still eat there.
I d-  maybe cause I don't eat chili.
And then I don't eat hot dogs.
It's no reason for me to go there    It's no- I mean,  I eat cheese fries from there.
That's it, like I don't-  So Ben's next door,  I like their food.
That's like my go to spot.
There's a-   ugh, I can't think of the name,  there's a spot my best friend likes to go to for brunch all the time.
It's somewhere on U Street.
I can't think of the name.
But they have a lot of-  What we try- what we're trying to do this summer  is to go to every   hopefully  new business that's like in certain areas, so U Street, H Street, Dupont.
Like all of the new restaurants and stuff so we could just like, get a feel for different environment, different food.
So we'll see how that goes.
I work a lot.
Especially in the summer.
No one wants to-  I work from the morning to the af-  the evening.
So I don't know how I'm gonna make it.
But I'm gonna try my best  to make it to majority of those restaurants.
They have a list of, um, like  the black owned businesses  on Facebook.
And my friends are like, oh we have to go to every single one to- for support.
I'm like, okay, that's a lot of businesses.
It is.
And I have to spend money every time.
That's what they don't understand  I'm like, y'all be wanting to go somewhere.
So they- they trying to say two days a week that we're gonna go somewhere.
That's a lot of money.
I still have to live.
I'm like-  I'm'a just get a shared appetizer with somebody.
It was great.
Yup.
That- that's it, yup.
The tea was good.
I haven't in a whi- I guess, well, working here, yes.
We're actually supposed to go to the National Mall tomorrow.
And the MLK memorial.
So when I was a kid I feel like I got tired of going to museums because  every year,  you would go  to the same museums  throughout all of elementary school.
They would take you to the Air and Space Museum, the Native American, like every Smithsonian museum.
Because it's free.
And they would take you.
Then you have to go to the cherry blossom p- parade, and  it was just too much.
So as I got older I kind of stopped going to museums.
But  they're opening up the, um,  African American History Museum,   so I'm definitely gonna be there.
Because that's a big stepping stone  for DC, so my friends and I are planning  a trip where we all go.
So,  I do go.
My friends that are into exercise and stuff they like to walk on the Mall  during the summer.
They catch the train there,  and then we walk around the Mall, and then from the Mall to Union Station.
I got sick one time because that's a long walk.
They were like, it's right there, it's not that long of a walk.
No, it's a long walk.
It's very long.
And then they didn't wanna take the train home.
They be like,  we could walk and then walk down here, get on the bus and walk.
No.
I'm leaving,  going home.
It is.
My friends were,  it's right there.
I'm like, okay sure.
No.
We still walking.
I am,  it depends on the type of music.
So,  I don't listen to  that much  music that like, has come out  recently.
But  I like-  I listen to a few local artists  because a lot of them  I like, grew up with or-  When I was in high school I was really big into wanting to be a publicist.
So I called myself representing some people.
I don't know why,  but I thought I was doing something.
I really was just making like MySpace pages and stuff like that, but  they got a little, you know, extra fans.
So, I listen to a few local artists.
I listen to a lot of R and B music,  some rap music.
Very selective people  in the rap music.
So yeah.