RD-NAME-3  July First  Twenty Fifteen  Been in the area for forty two years I was born in Detroit Um, I moved here-  like right after I was born.
Mm no, I don't-  I don't know how my family got their first home.
I remember where we were living at.
It was in, um, Bladensburg Uh, I remember, um going to school  at  Uh, what's the name of that school, uh-  going to elementary school  and um  I remember a couple of my teachers.
I remember  I don't know we wasn't there- we wasn't there that long, but  I remember little  little things here and there.
I remember my aunt  I mean not my aunt, my cousin lived across the street, RD-NAME-2.
I remember that, I thought that was cool Yes.
My mom was born here.
She was raised here  She was, um  She was a beautician, she was  She worked at the hospital,  RD-WORK-3  She loved singing,  uh  very much in the church.
And  She was a very  outspoken person.
If something was on her mind, she'd let you know.
My dad, uh  Never actually met my biological father  stepfather, he was  he was  you know he worked at uh Giant, for like thirty years.
And, um  he was, um  And uh, he was- he was pretty  pretty laid back.
Yeah,  my grandmother.
Grandmother, she used to live in, um, Alexandria  Usually- everybody used to go to her house every Sunday.
And  that was the spot where,  you know  everybody had to- everybody came together.
No matter what was going on that week  we went to Grandma house  seemed like everything was alright.
Uh  Yeah, we, uh,  go to church,  went over there, had  you know our normal dinner.
Dinner was always ready early.
About one or two o'clock, dinner was ready.
And  think the Cowboys won the Super Bowl that day.
And we was all happy, and  Cousin RD-NAME-1, I mean it was just- just everybody was just happy laughing  some people were mad.
It was just funny and fun.
Oh yeah we was just joking, joning on each other and,  and laughing because the Redskins wasn't in the Super Bowl, and  you know my aunts, and  people who didn't like the Cowboys, they were frustrated.
And people who did like the Cowboys  they were  happy.
I mean people who liked the Cowboys were happy  And  It was just fun, just the interaction and people just communicating, and  the way we were, you know.
It was just- it was just fun Think when I went to middle school,  we moved there.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4  And, um  yeah,  to RD-SCHOOL-4, and I remember  that was my first time getting on the bus- the school bus.
Cause when I lived in Bladensburg  I could walk to school.
Everything was pretty much right there.
Uh, when I got there, you know, I had to get on the bus, and it was different getting on the bus, cause the people.
And you got a lot of people on the bus all types of different personalities and  it was just a lot going on when you getting on- when you riding to school on the bus for the first couple times.
Mm no, but I do remember going.
I do remember  for some reason, it was-  the wrong neighborhood   one bus stop  neighborhood was big, but it wasn't that big where it had to be two separate busses, but that's what it was.
Two separate busses, so  depending on who you  hung out with  or who you was cool with, that would depend on, you know.
Like whoever my friends were  majority of my friends would ride a certain bus  you know, and then  it just so happened, like, you know, through time it didn't matter what bus you got on, it w- there wa- it was always fun.
Nah, because it was separate bus stops  So, if one bus will get there, s-  um, faster than the other bus.
So you can catch the early bus  it may get there maybe ten, fifteen minutes faster than the other one.
Mm-hm.
It's definitely changed.
Because back then  when we grew up there, everybody  stuck together.
We were all close,  you know.
We were all  the furthest we would go with each other is just joning on each other, j- an- and laugh and,  you know, that's about it.
And we all, right now today, we have a once a year  cook-out.
But now it's changed, because  now we got,  guys who don't-  who haven't-  you know, younger guys, who  coming from other places and lived there, and now  things are starting to happen  that never happened before.
Like Parents getting robbed.
going in their house, mind you it's-  you know, a middle class neighborhood, but  you know, just little wild stuff was starting to happen, that just never happened before, like that,  like  close friends' parents getting robbed going into the house, and  you know, just-  it's the-  it's the respect  like th- the younger  generation don't have respect.
They bring people around there that they really don't know, and-  let 'em-  you know, they just run 'em wild pretty much.
They go- they got new houses.
They building new houses in the back,  in the- in the back of the neighborhood  They developed the neighborhood, definitely.
Uh, it's p- it's p- It's not- yeah, it's not-  I mean when they developed it- when I was there, it was- they developed it.
Used to go by with new people, who lived there an-  in development every- and everything, and  uh it's just not-  the guys, the younger guys now  who like, just moved around there or whatever, it just not-  they just have no- no rules, no-  just doing anything.
Yes.
He still lives there.
He has  three kids,  married.
Everybody Everybody just get together and  you start seeing people  that you haven't seen  in a long time  and  you know, some people  some people is there every year, some people you may see once every four years.
Cause people moved out.
You know, people moved out  to other places  getting older  but you liable to run into people that you- you know- somebody you haven't seen in forever, and it's fun.
It's a cookout.
You got music.
Everybody take a picture.
You know, you get to see people you-  you just- it's just fun.
Kind of like a reunion.
Family reunion, you could say.
Uh, whatever,  uh, like  They have R and B  yeah, you know, pretty much old school.
You know, not too  old school music, but it's not nothing too,  you know, it's at a park, so it ain't- eh- it's not gonna be nothing to  you know, doesn't disrespectful, no-  it's a lot of, you know, dancing, just-  you know, old school,  laid back music.
Oh definitely go go,  yeah.
Yeah.
It's go go, it's just- I don't know how to explain, it's just different.
I used to listen to go go  so much  that I-  If I hear a regular song or something, I used to hear it from the go go, you know, the go go version before I hear  the actual artist,  who  sung the song, or whatever, cause go go is just with congos, it's just  music that just gets you.
It's just  good music,  that,  you know, due to the  violence  never really  got the  props it  deserves.
You know, cause a lot of times, you know, you go all- go to a go go and some go go bands are,  you know,  would  you know, the culture of it, you know, it ju-, you know, people, you know, your neighborhoods, you know, everybody wanna hear their names, everybody wanna,  you know, it's a lot of fights there.
A lot of gun violence there afterwards.
Not at all of 'em, but just-  you know, you can,  Especially when you go to see a younger go go band or something like that, you know, it's a lot of younger people there, it's just seemed  to be trouble, but as far as the music itself,  the music itself is amazing.
Mm- Well, my most  guess my most memorable was at the Classic  I had, uh-  I had a limo.
Then when we got out, the um, limo  and went into the, um  knew the owner  you spent so much money there, the owner, he used to just let us in through-  through the, uh, back door.
And  soon as I walked in there  they just got to-  putting me on display, just got to saying my name, seeming like everybody was clinging to me  they just kept putting me on display, showing me a lot of love, and it was just-  it was fun.
Felt like a-  a-  superstar or something.
Felt like I was famous.
Mm yeah.
Yeah, I dance, after-  you know, especially after I get enough drinks in me, I'll do anything.
Yeah, it's whatever.
I-  I got on the dance floor.
I mean, I start-  you know  start dancing and doing what I do, getting hype.
Yes.
Well, cranking can go,  it's different for different people  like me, I like the congos.
And I know when I st- when I hear the congos in my head,  you know,  I can just hear just the congos or the-  nobody else saying anything and the congos, it's ju- and they just cranking at the time, you know.
Cranking for somebody else could be the roll of toms.
or someone singing, you can use cranking to-  I mean, that word can translate to anything.
You know, somebody may think, um,  um, Miley Cyrus is cranking,  you know, um.
You know, Yeah.
Luther Vandross cranks.
Whitney Houston cranks.
Anita Baker cranks.
Sade  cranks.
Um  I could go on and on with that one, but The old Mariah Carey cranks.
Oh my god, she could just sing.
It's something about- especially them- them four, them three.
Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey  and Luther Vandross,  something about them live, that-  can't too many people  compete with.
Cause they was even better.
I mean everybody can record and get everything  washed out and get some, you know, some help with the technology and make it sound a little better, but  some reason, them three, oh my god, it's just like they just touch your sp- soul or something when they sing.
It's amazing.
I've always, you know my mother used to sing a lot, so I've always enjoyed live music.
Someone singing live  I've always appreciated that.
I don't remember, but I know she used to sing a lot.
She used to sing at church.
She used to sing in the home.
I know she used to sing a lot,  and she was good too.
She'll let you know she was good.
She'll look at you and sing, y- you be looking back at her like, oh you doing that?
Yeah.
She could sing and she'd let you know she could sing.
Uh, not as much as I used to.
, my grandmother passed.
That was the house, you know,  at least once a week, everybody was going regardless.
And-  And she passed, and  nah, not as, uh, much as I used to.
But I can you know, just like I was- just so happens  Why would you ask that question?
That was- I was talking- we wer- talking- my cousin called me yesterday, RD-NAME1.
He was saying about- he was talking about how we  need to get back to  you know, seeing each other more, and  being more of a family.
Uh, I don't know, everybody's doing they own thing pretty much.
Everybody, you know, there's not that one  person  that everybody,  you know, we don't have that  that Sunday, that Sunday dinner no more, that Sunday breakfast, that Sunday  presence where you gonna go there.
Like,  you know what I mean?
I don't know.
Like you- everybody  this one particular person, no matter what, everybody loves this one particular person.
There's no  animosity, there's no other,  you know,  worldly crap that goes, you know,  no excuses.
Mm-hm.
Yep Yep.
After she moved, she moved to South Carolina, cause she was getting older.
And then,  she passed.
Mm-hm.
Oh cause she could be taken- She can be taken care of there.
Yeah, she had my aunt there, Aunt RD-NAME-2,  cause she can be taken care of there, so.
Nah, I didn't hate school.
School was fun.
Especially living around the neighborhood.
It was fun.
And you'd look forward to going to school.
Plus they renovated our school, so everybody had to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
While they was d-, um,  you, know building the new  RD-SCHOOL-2,  everybody had to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-SCHOOL-2  RD-SCHOOL-2 High School and that was even more fun.
It was so many kids, so many,  you know, we didn't know the other kids, and it was just so funny, and so fun.
Cause we had our own m-  mojo.
We had our own  way of doing things and everything and then the other kids wasn't ready for us.
So, it was just fun.
Like we used to just jone each other a lot,  like it was nothing.
You know, to  you know, you get on the bus, and  shirt, on all- you know, your shirt-  on backwards, or your, you know  people gonna let you know.
You know, you get on the bus, you ain't wash your face, and you still got stuff all in your eyes and  all that, people will let you know.
You ashy, people will let you know.
You know.
Then when you go to the- you know, when we start going to RD-SCHOOL-2, they weren't- they was like, yo!
They thought we was tripping.
But,  it was just fun.
Seeing new people, new kids, meeting new guys.
Me- Ne- Meeting n- new- new people and stuff.
It was just fun.
Nah, I can't- I don't have a best line, depends on who I'm joning on.
But I already know that, you know, and joning is- is ca- is- It can be looked at, I guess, as bad you talk- but, nah, like for us it made you  tougher.
You know, as far as  your default.
So, I know I had a big head, so  I didn't have to worry about,  you know, okay, I know now, at first, I used to be like ah, they talking about my head, now it's  oh yeah, you right.
I do got a big head.
And I accepted it, and then it was just fun after that.
It was like, oh okay.
And I'd figure out something  about them.
And then we would just go back and forth,  you know.
Right.
Well, it depends, like a friend of mine RD-NAME-1,  every time he calls,  like if I call him, he  joning off the break.
He'd say, you know,  Bubblegum, What's up?
You know what I'm saying?
Or just anything over the phone.
And RD-NAME-1 I- cause RD-NAME-1, um,  something about this tooth  he got this one tooth in his mouth, that was different from the other  you know, teeth that's in his mouth  and you know, we just, I used to call him Tea Bag, and  all types of stuff.
All types of stuff, man.
It was just so  so funny, man.
It was crazy, it's like  I don't know.
Toothbrush, he just used to skip over that one tooth, man.
That tooth been dead in his mouth forever, and he just still carrying that joint around.
But, it's just so funny, I mean we all, it's just funny.
All in love, you know what I mean?
Cause somebody can jone on me, and if it's funny, I'm'a laugh with 'em.
Kind of like a roast, or what- I don't know whatever You know, we do that, we grew up doing that.
It ain't.
Right  It ain't personal.
But, it'll make you- it'll make you somehow, when you  accept who you are in some wei- you know what I mean?
Make you accept, okay, I do have a big old- or I d- or I am overweight or I am-  you know,  whatever.
And it doesn't bother you no more.
After school, we would go to the park.
Um,  go over to somebody's house  whoever house  parents weren't there, we can go over there and just  eat up all the food, and go over there and just jone and chill and have fun.
Play video games.
I don't know, what was out at that time?
Double Dribble,  that's what's out at that time.
Nintendo S- Nintendo Sixty Four.
No,  what was it?
Nintendo Sixty Four?
No, Playstation, Playstation,  the first one,  Nintendo, Nintendo Sixty Four, Playstation   Super Nintendo Commodore Sixty Four.
Um,  I had Atari,  twelve in a game.
Mm-hm.
I used to play all that.
I've been a gamer all my life.
Hey I mean, it's Madden.
That's just- once you Madden-  it's my favorite game, cause I just been  been playing it  that's something we definitely play in our neighborhood is Madden.
You had to be good at Madden.
Um Couldn't get on the game.
You would lose the first game, then you have to wait around, you gotta wait  through ten people, before you can get back on the game.
Play everybody, if you over at somebody house  and you're like, aw, man.
It ain't like now, where you can just get online and play,  you know,  play whoever.
You know, especially if you playing against your friends, you like, man.
You wanna beat everybody, you wanna be the best.
So.
Some point I was.
I was one of- though, I wa- you damn right, I was the best at- for a couple of years I was the best.
And then you know, RD-NAME-3, he was a beast.
He was-, he was a beast.
But,  it was just fun.
Competitive Yeah.
I- I wa- we grew up- I didn't play- we didn't play 2K, we played Live.
But, yes, I've- I've played 2K before.
But, yes, I can teach you how to play it.
I mean, I know how to play it.
I wouldn't say that.
Yeah, but nah, I wouldn't say- Right.
I wouldn't say not as good as Madden, cause I was good in Live.
But,  If I played it, and  really got to learn,  you know,  you have to learn the-  to  learn it,  then I'll be good at it.
Cause I ain't just gonna keep just sitting there, just let nobody just  keep beating me in the game.
I would let you beat me in the game.
No.
But honestly, I wouldn't let you beat me in a game,  because  you're a competitor.
And you're gonna figure it out.
So, and then, you're gonna try to beat me, so it won't happen.
I'm not letting you win at nothing.
I just wonder- that's a quote,  so.
A quote.
I don't give away victories.
I don't care if you're four years old.
I don't care if you're two years old.
I don't care if you're thirty-five, fifty years old.
I do not give up give up victories.
Next question?
Um- Uh-  Washington Bullets slash Wizards fan.
I love my team   I hate  my owner,  the coaching staff.
Our owner settles for  playoffs.
He's not into winning championships.
Our coaching staff has let us down.
Our freaking general manager is  terrible.
But yeah, the owner doesn't see that, and now this interview is getting depressing, so-   Um Yes, let's move on.
That's not acceptable.
That's- see- that's what our owner thinks, oh we at least- we go to-  No, it's about winning championships  No, you know what I mean?
It's weird, but what does- you know- he wouldn't run a business- if he ran a business- he's a mill- billionaire, so if he ran a business like he ran a team,  and that's unacceptable, he didn't run his  business like that to reach a-  you know what I mean?
Just to be satisfied with  Oh we made a thousand dollars, or we made- No!
You've made- you a  billionaire.
You had  bigger goals.
You had- You was shooting for the top.
And know you get to own the team and you keep settling for-  I don't know.
Let me stop.
Am I crying?
Oh.
Uh-huh.
Right.
Not in the Summer League.
Mm-mm.
Georgetown.
Georgetown University.
Greg Monroe.
Patrick Ewing.
Oh in this room?
Um-  The beautiful and wonderful RD-NAME-4 Mm, Yes.
And RD-NAME-2.
Um,  like if I'm going out, what do you mean?
What do you mean?
I don't know- like-  Oh, if I'm out- if I'm going out around the neighborhood, it's- it's be like- RD-NAME-1  You know, RD-NAME-1 and  RD-NAME-1, and  you know, whoever else is around there.
Us- you used to just go around there, whoever you see there, you see 'em, and  it's always somebody around there.
And then you just hang out.
You know, you just there.
Everybody there just talking about-  you know,  having a good time.
It's been a while Nah- No- I mean, the neighborhood, yeah,  pretty much,  from around the neighborhood.
So, if you was from around the neighborhood, I hung out with you.
Yeah, I went to clubs.
We went- Yeah.
We went to parties.
House- you know, we'd enjoy the house parties, whatever.
We-  we all hung out and had fun.
Yeah, like if I'm around there and then-  People just start-  whoever around there, oh such and such is around there?
Oh I'm on my way around there, then- then people start, and then  as people start getting- coming around there, then it's next thing you know  we all chilling and having a good time.
Well- Everybody be talking about food.
What we gonna do?
We gonna cook out?
We gonna-  So, if we end up cooking out, we'll probably cook out  somewhere.
At the park, or-  or somebody house around the neighborhood.
And then-  you know, get some drinks.
Sit there chill, drink, talk, and  talk about whatever's-  going on.
You know, talk about the past.
Talk about what's going on in people lives, and talk about-  you know, just sit there and have a good time.
And  jone on each other.
.
We get to joning, that's inevitable.
We can start joning as soon as we get there, but  we'll um-  yeah, it was jus- it was jus- we just have a good time.
We just all just start  getting around each other having and just a good time, it's.
You know, cause I love cooking.
I love-  I love cooking.
I love people and I love food.
I love trying different things, and  it's like with cooking, you always learning.
It's always something new.
New techniques.
so, just pursuing it.
Just tryna,  you know,  see  see what happens with it.
But more- you know, mostly I just love cooking, that's all.
I love cooking.
That's- I don't know.
I mean that's hard right there,  cause I'm still learning.
I've gotten pretty good on the macaroni and cheese.
I got pretty good on that, took some time, I think.
Um.
Um,   I don't it's hard, because  I mean the black bean soup was good.
You can aks RD-NAME-2 about that one.
Um.
I don't know.
That's tough, cause I'm still  tryna  figure things out.
Guacamole with sour cream, I think I p- guacamole with sour cream added to it.
Didn't work, because I don't know if I put too much sour cream in it.
Uh-  sposta put a little sour cream, a little hot sauce in it, so  I haven't perfected that, but the first time I made it, it didn't work.
Well, now I just,  my brother's opened up a phone service  and   he,  you know,   wanted me to join the team with him.
So, I've been doing that.
You know, um,  yeah, just been doing that, you know, with him,  and  through time, it's really gonna pay off.
Actually, this morning I have to go  and hook some clients up,  this morning, so  it's a move forward.
It's gonna be extremely profitable, and-  See what happens there.
Just-  my long term goal is just to be-  happy.
I don't need, I mean  just to be happy and just to be  just to be alright.
Oh, as far as, yeah, I wanna travel, I wanna travel the world.
That's a goal.
Everywhere.
Europe.
I wanna go to Europe,  and  N- Um  Um, what's the name of it?
I just wanna go everywhere.
I wanna go to  to the Bahamas.
I wanna go to Jamaica.
I wanna go to  Africa.
I wanna go,  I just wanna see the world.
Am- Amsterdam.
I don't know, I just always wanted to go there.
Oh, where would I go after Amsterdam?
Um,  Italy.
Um,  after that, I mean, I may, shh- I'm wanna go  France.
I mean,  from there it's just endless, I just keep it moving.
Yeah, I wanna go to all fifty states,  of course, but.
Yeah.
Some of the United States, yeah, Grand Canyon and all that  you know,  I haven't did that yet, so  That's it.
Oh yeah, Vegas, definitely Vegas, yeah.
Vegas.
I'd like to go to Vegas  before the season starts, so you can place some bets.
Before the football season starts.
In-  September  Like seventh or something like that.
Go to Vegas and place your bets early, and find out who you think is gonna win the Super Bowl, play the odds,  or,  you know, you put a hundred dollars down  may end up winning,  you know,  couple thousand, if you pick the wi- you know.
Mm-hm.
I got a sleeper team I would pick.
The Houston Texans.
Nah.
Oh, that's sh- Cincinnati, you probably talking about.
The Bengals.
Oh it's just their coaching staff I like, but this-  Their coaching- they have a really good coaching staff.
And I know that,  you know,  they have a really good coaching staff, and I'm thinking that  that something,  thinking that they gonna do something this year.
They've been poor in the past.
No,  they don't suck.
They- until they got this coaching staff they got now, they're- they're serious.
They have a really smart coaching staff, and I-  and I-  I like that.
That's why I say they're a sleeper team, ain't nobody gonna pick 'em, but  just by me watching football, I love watching football on Sundays,  especially  you know, being able to watch all the games.
I've been blessed  and fortunate enough to watch all the games in the house,  instead of going out.
And that's a blessing.
But-  But the Houston Texans,  and Vegas.
Uh RD-NAME-3  is  an awesome  s- very  awesome kid.
Extremely smart  loves to play  loves to read  and she loves to learn.
RD-NAME-1  he loves to  he has- s- I don't know about the reading part with RD-NAME-1, but  RD-NAME-1 loves  Spiderman.
and car and  superheroes  and  dancing.
just like RD-NAME-3 she likes dancing too.
That's the reason I get along with 'em, cause we,  you know, like to  you know,  I dance with 'em.
I go to the park with 'em,  play with 'em.
I get dirty with 'em.
And,  I'm just  good with kids.
Oh, hold hands and walk together.
Mm-hm.
Hold hands and walk together to the park.
You know they show me love, they come  give me a hug, or come and just  they show, they let- they let the- they let me know  how much they appreciate me.