December fifteenth.
You need the year?
Oh gosh.
Nineteen eighty-six.
Um, I was born in Arlington Hospital actually.
Arlington, Virginia.
Um,  so, I'm DMV.
That's what I tell everybody, I'm DMV.
No, never actually lived in DC, have a lot of family in DC, so  kind of like stayed at grandma's house in DC but never actually lived in DC.
Um, right now I'm in Maryland, in, um, Temple Hills, Maryland, so.
PG County.
Um,  I went to school a couple places, mainly in Maryland.
Um, I was born in Virginia  because  my-  my mom's family and my father's family are actually from Alexandria.
Um, they're from O town.
But then we moved to Temple Hills just as I was born.
So with  family still being in Alexandria then moving into Temple Hills, uh, I went to school in Maryland.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4,  uh, RD-SCHOOL-6 and RD-SCHOOL-8,  which ironically like,  my kids are going to now.
It's so funny.
I'm a wedding planner.
I do weddings and events.
I started my own business, it'll be four years in January.
I absolutely freaking love it, it's so awesome.
Especially in this area.
It's really fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's- it's very exciting for everyone involved because it's like,  everybody wants a reason to celebrate.
And then you have this big moment, and everybody's going all out to celebrate it.
It's just really beautiful to see people in love.
Yeah.
Um,  what- well, um, it's funny because  I didn't- it's not like I went to school for it or anything.
I always wanted to do events, I actually worked for a catering company for a little while, R and R Catering based in Springfield.
And I liked it, but I- I just wanted to be more hands on in the planning part of it.
I was working for a used appliance store when I decided to start my business.
So I was nowhere near on the scale of what I wanted to do.
I just decided, you know.
And because I was working for a small business owner I was like, hey, he- he got this store,  if he can do it, I can do it.
You know, I'm helping him run his business, I can do a business.
So I kind of just put myself out there.
Craigslist  helped me get my first gig,  um, as a wedding planner.
It was a lady, um,  she had posted a ad saying that she was looking for a day of coordinator, no experience needed, um, she was gonna help somebody start their portfolio.
She interviewed me via Skype,  I got it, her wedding ended up being this beautiful  Ritz Carlton wedding in Pentagon City.
And the girl was a model.
Like,  real live like,  cover of magazines like, she's a model.
And so her pictures just came out- Her wedding, everything, it was just so gorgeous.
And I think in that moment like,  once it started coming together and I could see that I could actually do this, like I could put something together like this, like I was able to help her, I was like, I could do this.
And I just-  I- I  started researching how to start my business.
And that year I took some classes, um,    like registering my business and all of that and  I been rolling ever since.
Um, she- it- th- No, that's actually another bride that I did.
Th- um, RD-NAME-3 is the- is the quote in my e-mail.
RD-NAME-3 was so amazing.
Um, she came to me and it was like maybe like four months before her wedding and she was just like, I know  it's gonna be good but I don't think it's gonna come together like I i- like I have it in my mind.
She was like, I'm just afraid that everything won't come together.
She was so nervous that on her wedding day,   this girl was literally trying to cut bangs into her hair.
She was like,  I don't know, I hate my hair, I think I'm gonna cut bangs into it.
Like, that's-  that's how anxious people get before their wedding.
They're like- Like, girl you've never wanted bangs before, why do you want bangs now?
No, I'm not gonna let you cut bangs into your hair before you walk down the aisle.
Just cool out, everything's fine, you look beautiful, it's okay.
Like that- that's the quote in my e-mail, I love her.
Yeah.
Yes.
Um,  both my mom and dad were born in Alexandria.
Yup.
Um, my dad has his CDO so he does t- uh, like, kind of like the dump truck  drivers that you see all over DC right now.
Yeah.
Um, my mom manages a deli at a grocery store.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, so th- Okay,  um,  and m- this is just my story, so I'm gonna put- Cause I'm a a hundred percent honest person.
Um,  so, my mom  had me when she was fifteen.
My grandparents became my parents.
They kind of were like, you know what,  we're gonna take her,  you don't know what you're doing.
So I was-  You know, at the time my grandparents, they hadn't expected a new child.
They- they were-  their children were teenagers, they weren't expecting a new child.
So they-  they went ahead and  got a house in Temple Hills, Maryland to move to.
Um, they left their- th- my- they had two children, uh, my uncle and my mom,  and they left, uh, their son there cause he was about eighteen, nineteen.
And, you know,  my mom and I we went,  uh, to Temple Hills, so that is the part that I do remember.
But, um, my grandparents raised me.
So,  I grew up in a household where  they weren't really parents because they were grandparents.
Like they parented me, they gave me wisdom, they ga-  they grandparented me, I should say.
And so,  I kind of-    I grew up with this really kind of older world view.
Uh, my great-grandmother was ar- live when I was young, my great-great-grandmother was alive when I was young, and she was born in nineteen eleven.
Um, she, too was from Virginia and, um,  you know, a lot of  my mother, you know, family is from Virginia.
Uh, my grandmother is actually from North Carolina so I have roots down there too, it's like  this- this funny blend.
My grandfather was in the Air Force and that's how he met my grandmother, so they-  they kind of- um,    they taught me everything I knew.
But at the same time- Um, I was the eldest of four children, my mom just kept  going along having kids.
So, um,  I was always independent, in charge of everybody else, kind of in a leadership position  early.
Um,  what I remember though, specifically, about  growing up in the DC, Maryland, Virginia area is that people would always aks you  where you're from.
And  the thing about it is, DC at the time had this  era of pride  where if you were from DC you were automatically better than being from Maryland or Virginia.
You were more credible somehow, you were more cool somehow, your swag was better,  ev-  If you could claim DC, it was a thing that- that people would do.
Like, it was almost like, um-  And it's funny because they used to say Maryland girls were bamas.
And I know that's like one of the terms, I read it on the website, that people say they didn't  really know was a DC term.
But th- yeah, they would call Maryland girls bamas because DC girls had this city swag.
And, um,  the thing about DC  and their pride and- and one of the reasons that I think like, DC was kind of hyped up in the head like they were is because we've always  had our own  culture.
Like, we've always had our own thing going.
Forget the rest of the nation, we are the closest to the Capital.
Who do you think is gonna know if they government goes on strike first?
Somebody in a small town in Oklahoma or the people in the city?
We know  what's going on in the world, we know what's going on in our country  cause we're here in the midst of it.
We're right next to the President, we d- we have no choice but to know what's going on.
So it always put us-  You know,  we were in our own world.
DC had it's own thing going.
We weren't worried about New York.
New York had it's fashion, New York was fashion capital.
Okay whatever, DC implemented it's own style.
Um, you know, even to the point where- you know, where you look at Baltimore and DC and it's such a distinction there.
Because Baltimore actually did decide to take more of a New York  take  to how they approach culture.
Whereas DC had it's own thing, and that's why there's still a distinction between Baltimore and DC.
Um,  another thing  like,  growing up in DC  people don't understand, people aks about go go music.
They have no clue.
They don't understand what it is, what it means, why we love it,  what it is.
Um,  the reason why go go was so  popular growing up because  it was our artist.
It was people that were our brothers, our cousins, our-  our family members.
These were people that we knew, these were neighborhood members  forming bands and singing about our neighborhoods in the songs.
I tell people- I also do Lyft part time, so  I tell, um,  gentrifiers, as they're called, when they get in my vehicle, um, when they aks me about DC, I say, if you hear  the name of your street mentioned in a-  a-  a old go go song, just know your neighborhood used to be  hood.
It's nothing wrong with that.
Just know,  that whatever street you're on,  if it was mentioned  by Backyard,  RE,  any of those bands back in the day,  just know there's a reason why that name is in that song.
These were neighborhoods that people rep, these were streets that people would die for, these are people that-  The-  they were fighting.
These were actual like, neighborhoods that were against each other, and you can hear each neighborhood named in  one of these go go songs.
That's one of the reasons why there were so many fights at the go gos.
There were so many fights cause they would start calling out one territory,  another territory would get upset.
And even within DC they had their own factions.
There was uptown  guys.
And,  you know,  the Southeast  crew.
And then, you know,  nobody- nobody really, you know, wanted to say it, but the only real difference was  the fact that the uptown  or the,  you know, the crew that was in the north was really just-  they were around more schools and education, they were  more educated  black people.
They were in Columbia Heights, and, you know what I mean, not far from Howard and  they had access.
Southeast,  east of the river,  doesn't have that kind of access.
They don't have schools in Southeast.
So it was a difference in the- in the- in the- even in the sanctions of DC, so.
It w- it was a big deal to be from DC back in the day.
And now,  because  everybody was kind of forced out into the surrounding areas of Maryland,  Maryland  then-  PG County I should say, cause PG County  kind of surrounds that part of DC  that was on the borderline.
So,  as people started to move in- And you can look at the cities  that are next to DC,  from Capital Heights,  Suitland, Forestville,  Temple Hills, Oxon Hill, all of these go in a line around the DC line.
And all of these communities is where  the black people from DC got pushed out into.
And so then PG and Maryland  then had a connection  because-  Well, PG and DC then had a connection because  yeah I'm from DC but I live here now, so now this is a cool area.
So then,  PG started to get it's own thing, and I guess  that was like the era that I was coming up in because there were go go bands and they would do go gos in places like Marlow Heights Shopping Center.
You know what I mean, and then they would ha- I remember when they started playing at the Brandywine Firehouse.
And I was like, that's a little deep down the road for a go go, but okay.
Um,   and then, you know, just watching, it kind of transformed to the DMV.
Now Virginia,  interestingly enough, cause I- like, my family is from  this old town, Alexandria area.
And that has it's own history and culture  in itself.
So like- and I think  that's the-  that's the one thing that kind of- excuse me,  kind of separates me from like,  like the- like the  girls that kind of just grew up in PG only, that didn't have access to Alexandria.
It's co- it was completely different.
My grandfather, he worked for Northern Virginia Community College, and one of the things he did was have me at the college all the time.
And it exposed me to Annandale,  Tyson's Corner,  um,  just a mass area of just,  this is a whole nother world.
So it kind of gave me perspective,  um, knowing that there was something else out there, not to be limited to just what I saw around me.
Um,  and I remember- And there were- there- there- there were hoods in Virginia too,  Old Town.
Um, the house that my grandparents owned  in Virginia before they moved, they just recently sold it.
I'm talking about maybe, like the- the paper just-  paperwork just finished this year.
Um, and they been selling that house for the last  four years because  there's a developer that wanted to buy the entire block.
And so first he had to s-  buy out all the individual homeowners, and then there's a section owned by the state which were section eight housing that they had to get approval to move all of those people  and have somewhere for them to go  before they can get that whole block.
So this process took four years just for my grandparents to sell their house.
Because the block that my grandparents was on  it was worth a lot because it sat right across from Braddock  Metro Station.
That house- that- that block was there before that Metro Station was there.
So that was like- like, I'm talking about  clothes drying out on a string  in the- in the back alley  neighborhoods, because that was the projects in Alexandria.
So-  and there- and there were- there- there- there were projects, and in the section eight in Alexandria funny enough, it was very integrated, it was a bunch of black and white people.
I remember  my dad had a place, um, there.
And my- um,    and his next door neighbors was these two white ladies named Lynda and Brenda.
They were twins.
Um,  and Lynda and Brenda they were home all day they just sat around, they always had the candy, we always used to go over there and get snacks.
Um, so like it was- it- it was- it was different in Alexandria.
It was still like, the lower  i- income community, section eight, poverty, but it was- it was just-  it was different.
It wasn't like a whole bunch of crime,  it was just us hanging out.
Like I remember,  um, hanging out with my dad.
And at one point,  my dad's house was like one house on the block, two houses down was his sister, and two houses down from that was his aunt and uncle.
And so like our family was lit- almost like that whole block.
And we would go to the park behind the house, and play outside  past dark.
Never had to worry about nothing.
We would roam Alexandria, we would walk from-  we would walk all the way down to Del Ray, which is all the way down the other side.
So we would just be out, um, walking around through Alexandria.
So- um, and that was like weekends for me.
So like weekdays was back to PG County.
It was back to, um,  you know, just  a whole different set of things.
Because now PG County, it was starting to  grow with this DC influence so it was like a new mix, um, of-  of just what it was to be from DC, it was like- And-  and honestly, my uncle- and h- there's a- there's a article online, my uncle- I have that uncle that swear he came up with the phrase DMV.
He literal- and it- they s-  someone published a article on it, like they literally coin him being the first person to come up with the term.
And he's a producer, he's been into music, so it d-  it doesn't surprise me that unc woulda been saying one day, yeah the DMV, the DMV.
And it catch on,  and people not even realize.
Because again,  he was- you know, he- he was on my father's side, he's from- he has family in Virginia,  his mother lives in DC, Kenilworth Ave.
Like, I just know like,  he's also a part of this mix where it's DC, Maryland, Virginia.
He lives in Maryland now, he lives  like across the street, oddly enough, which is  ironic, he lives like right across the street from me still.
Um,    and so  DMV grew because there's a bunch of us that's like,  there's really no difference.
I- I m- I may  have grown up in PG but I spent time in Alexandria, I partied in DC, I used to come- Oh man, when I hit- when I hit  nineteen about, when I was nineteen and I- and I realized that I- literally from where I was in Temple Hills it was a  fifteen minute ride to downtown DC,  straight down two ninety-five.
When I realized that, I was in  the clubs like every weekend because it was so much fun to just go out into the city.
And you know the U Street crowd and the Adams Morgan vibe when it- when it w- used to be just like a bunch of people standing around,  saying hey, having fun,  drinking.
Not e-  Adams Morgan was the first place that I saw  people just out  and about  drunk, and the police didn't care.
Like cause they knew  that this is what people were here doing.
They're- everybody's here getting blasted, as long as nobody's hurting anybody,  do what you want.
And that was the first place I seen that, was Adams Morgan.
And  I was like, what?
D- that man is drunk.
And he is just  stumbling around the street, and ain't nobody gonna say nothing.
Okay,  I'm gonna keep partying, so.
That's how it was, it was like we would-  me and my friends we would- we would go to Iverson Mall, we would go grab us, um, a couple of outfits,  and then we would figure out what we was gonna wear that weekend, and we would be out every weekend.
It was- it was so much fun.
And so like- And then I've worked in DC.
Oh my gosh, who hasn't had a job in DC where you had to commute  for freaking-  So Metro has always been jacked up.
Let me just say that, it's never- it's never been good, like Metro has never been good.
It's always been horrible.
And I just remember, years ago before I became an entrepreneur just that commute to DC.
And it was like, okay,  park my car at Southern Avenue Metro Station and take the green line into to transfer over to the red line so I had to ride to L'Enfant Plaza.
And you can actually see on the train the difference  of  the people as th- as you go from stop to stop, you're like, okay everybody  that's sitting next to me looks like me, and then all of a sudden you turn around and you look and you're like, nobody looks like me.
You can see the difference once you flow into certain parts of the city through the train.
Just like,  ride one of the trains to the last stop and you'll see, at each s-  one of those last stops it's a different-  like I'm talking about different ethnicities for every like- almost at every different area.
So,  it was like,  you know, you ride into the city,    you would go ahead and- and- and put on your armor, cause you're in the city now, you gotta put on your armor.
And you get ready for this hustle and bustle.
I worked, um, at a temp agency  and we  would pretty much just, you know, help people find jobs, staffing and stuff like that.
Um,  and that was interesting because that kind of showed me,  um,  like-  The CEO of the company used to come by,  um,  every now and again.
Little old lady.
And she was the CEO of a Fortune five hundred company.
And she would just come by and go to Au Bon Pain across the street and get us all some danishes and stuff.
And I'm-  and I'm wondering like, if the person in the line behind her  knows that this woman  owns this massive  corporation across the street.
Cause she's just sitting here buying pastries.
You don't know who's in DC with you.
You don't know.
You could be standing next to  somebody that just like, owns half the daggone  block and you're just standing there next to them at Panera just getting a sandwich.
And that's the crazy part about DC.
There's so many people that come to DC for so many different reasons.
So many different reasons.
And especially now,  it's like-  And this is how I know when people aren't from here cause-  like, I told you I do Lyft.
They get in my car,  we're talking for a bit and they're like, oh,  are you from here?
I'm like, oh, you're not.
Cause   if you have to aks me if y- if I'm from here, then you're not from here.
I know you're not.
So,  It's like a dead giveaway.
And I get people that- they're like from all over the place like, Alaska, Utah, Nebraska, Miami, New York.
Had one guy from LA in my car, he's like-  he's like- um,  he was like, man I hated it there, I love it here, I was like, really?
Like, man I'm trying to go to LA.
He's like, nah you're not gonna like it.
I was like, okay.
You know, it's just  crazy cause people just- they're like  from all over and they're coming here.
And so,  like now with the whole process of the gentrification and like people-  It's so funny like, especially like in the black community cause people don't know how to feel about it.
They don't know if they wanna be mad or w- if they wanna be happy about it.
Like,  you know you like this new structured building they're building here, you know you like all this clean architecture and stuff, you know it.
The part that really gets me is that, okay,   let's take it back.
you know, people are mad it's no longer Chocolate City.
You know, I think- Even my uncle the one that  made up DMV, he po- he posted a post on Facebook, he was like,  it's no longer Chocolate City, it's Chocolate chip City, and you know, he got a couple of laughs for that.
But I'm like, look,  you know,  the chocolateness has nothing to do with the fact that  we as the nation's  capital have to set an example.
If I am from anywhere else in the world,  and I come to the city that's supposed to be  the city that houses the leader of the free world,  I don't wanna see no homeless guy pissing on the corner.
I don't wanna see  potholes the size of my car.
I don't want to see  the- the- the- just the griminess.
Like I think DC needed to be cleaned up, like honest to goodness, like it just- it just needed like a facelift.
And I don't think there's nothing wrong with that.
Now,  I'm also looking at it from a business person's point of view.
I don't see anything wrong with all the money that's coming into the city.
Because that's what people miss.
people miss the fact that with all this migration of, um, these millennials, cause that's who it is, the millennials with money  that are coming to the city that are- are  doing nothing but increasing the property value.
Well, they're bringing their money with them.
And it just so happens, me as a wedding planner, I welcome  the- the- the- yeah, exactly, I- I welcome the millennials with the money to spend  that should soon be getting married  after they live this life in the city and they decide they're ready to settle down.
Because this is where they come and meet.
They come and meet at the little bar on the corner or the little restaurant or the little- You know, they come and meet here and they're like, oh my god I'm in love.
And then they getting married.
They start their families and then they move somewhere else.
That's what- that's the migration of DC.
People come to DC for what, for work and school.
They come- they- they will come to DC for work and school.
Very few people  will stay  in DC.
That's the thing.
There- they'll come, work and school, I got my degree at Georgetown, and I gotta, you know what I mean, and now I'm gonna go  move here.
Once I got my degree and my husband and my everything that I wanted I'm gone.
And then, you know, it's just a new flux of people coming in.
And it's always been a revolving door like that, it's always been that way.
The only difference now is that  you can see  DC is trying to  capitalize on this.
That's why they're building so many condos.
That's why they're building so many freaking apartments.
They're trying to capitalize on this wave of people that they know just wanna come here for a little while.
Because come on, be real, if you really wanted to keep people in your city you would be building houses.
You would be building long term things not short term spaces.
Come on.
It's very simple.
They wanna capitalize on it.
As- as should they.
Because after all, it's a market.
S-  business,  so.
The people  that are getting pushed out,    I understand how they could feel hurt.
I- I- I truly do.
I understand it  and  I get how  just having something taken from you that's always been yours and  kind of feeling victimized by it, you know what I mean.
I get it, I understand it.
But I've just-  I guess like I said, because i- like that sliding door experience, if it wasn't for the fact that I already knew  that there w- there is a different way of living, that you could have a different life.
And that's the problem.
See, I don't think-  You know, people always talk about  people in poverty, and, you know, how they're lazy and this that and the third, and they don't-  they don't want  to do anything.
Um,  I think   what people kind of forget is that  we have a society  that's kind of set up where  we need people like that.
That's the way capitalism is set up, that's the way that it is.
That is the way that it is done.
People that don't understand economics fall to the bottom of the list.
And unfortunately it's not enough people taking notice of what the real problem is.
What is the real problem?
Well, it's not the gentrifiers, it's not the money coming into DC.
That's not a problem.
You gonna tell me that's a problem?
That's not a problem, the problem is is that you don't know how to capitalize on it because nobody has ever taught you.
That's the problem.
You don't even-  you don't even understand  that this  is a good thing.
Because  right now,  you can honestly  get in  for- with nothing.
Li- okay,   right now  somebody could  come up with a vegan juice smoothie bar.
A little cart,  set it up  on the corner somewhere.
And make a killing.
And still keep their regular job.
You could open  a pilates place, anything fitness.
Bicycles,  ooh,  open a bicycle repair shop.
Oh my gosh,  you could just sell  accessories  for workouts,  and make money right now.
You get what I'm saying, like there's no-  there's no way that you can't kind of grow from this if you're not open to growing.
You can grow from this.
You can grow to the point where you don't have to worry about nobody pushing  anybody else  in your lineage  around  anymore.
Cause they will have what they need.
See the difference is  again  like  I was shown- And I- and- and I consider myself blessed.
My grandfather is- is the type of person  that- and I guess this is what we d- we need more of is that  he works  with making sure  that tomorrow is good.
We don't look at tomorrow, we j- we just see today.
He- he's looking at tomorrow.
My grandfather is the type of person that he already has money set up for when  my- my daughter is old enough to get a car,  and she's twelve.
So,  he has money set up for her when she's eighteen for her to go- for her first year of college.
She's twelve.
She's already aksing me, mommy-  Like she's already going on college tours,  she understands how credit works.
That little girl can explain to you  how to improve your credit,  how t- how- what things damage your credit,  what a credit score is.
You understand?
Like she gets that at twelve.
She- she aksed my grandmother the- the other day, how do you buy a house?
Cause she aksed me and I was like, you know what, I don't know anything about that, I'm gonna let you talk to, uh, your gran- your great-grandmother over there cause she's done it  three, four times before,  and so she knows.
So- but that's her level of curiosity.
She wants to know.
It's a difference in mindset.
It's a difference in mindset.
And so,  I don't think  that anybody ever really took the time to- to give them  that  different mindset,  to actually  instill that in them.
I- it was instilled in me whether I wanted it or not because my grandfather exposed  it to me.
Um,    and it's-  it's one of the things that kind of like,  propelled me  into business probably, just that understanding, knowing that it's possible.
Um, a lot of people  just don't view things as possible,  and so they get stuck.
Um,  but again, it's like    there's this program this young lady has where she's working with DC public schools and DC charter schools now to get financial education into schools.
I reached out to her to see if she could do the same thing for PG County.
Um, I need to talk to,  you know, like  PG County school board, I don't know how that process would work.
I just wanna get them linked up where we could start the process because I know if my twelve year old can learn credit,  the rest of the twelve year olds in PG County can learn credit.
Cause  it-  it can be taught.
Um,  and that's like a project that I would love to help with, just like getting more financial education out there, getting  people to understand that it's possible.
It's one of the things on my  website, one of my goals for my business is to  start more  female entrepreneurs.
Like just to help them get started.
Like I feel like  with entrepreneurship  we can start to shift the balance  because  the whole  slave thing,  well,  we need people  to be slaves.
If you are financially free,  meaning,  you make your own- you set your own income, you establish.
And see, and that's the thing like, people like, oh I make good money with my job and this and other things, Yes, but you're-  the government has his hand in your pocket before you do.
He's already collecting what he wants  before you even see your paycheck.
It's different as a entrepreneur.
It's different, it's a whole different mindset.
It's like,  let me pay for what I need to take care of first,  then you get yours.
What?
You can do that?
Yes you can do that.
You can do that.
It's possible.
And it- you know what I mean, it's just-   it's a difference in mindset.
And not to say that there's like-  you know, there's not things out there.
There are very positive programs in DC.
My grandmother on my father's side, she had a program called We Can.
It was Washington Enrichment Cultural Arts Network.
And she literally- like, that woman slaved for that program, like that's all I remember  about that is that she  always was there dedicating her time to teaching things like  music and dance and  anything arts related.
Like she was just getting kids  off the street  into something  positive, creative, influential,  fun,  freedom,  just  change your mindset.
There are great programs like that.
There are some,  but there are not  as many  as there need to be.
And it's not as much as a push as there should be for  like actually focusing on, okay-  You know, what's done is done.
DC is gone.
Y'all can f- forget about  getting whatever y'all want back, because they gonna slap so many zeros behind that tag, it's r- it's gonna be ridiculous.
What you need to focus on now is building  for what's next.
Because  if we don't learn anything from this  then  what's-  you know what I mean, what's the point of bitching and griping?
I'm sorry,  what's the point of complaining?
Whatchu complaining for?
Oh no, they pushed us out.
Well, whatchu gonna do next time they push?
You just gonna keep moseying?
Exactly, you have to learn something from it.
So,  As much as I like- I sympathize with people,  I get it,  but at the same time I'm like,  wake up.
Wake up.
You ain't woke up by now?
You ain't up yet?
Get up.
Whatchu waiting on?
What-  what more do you need?
They're- they're literally  building buildings on top of overpasses in DC to get people in here.
Exactly.
Do you understand how th- that works?
They are- they don't give a damn, they want to fill the city.
To the point where they're building buildings on top of something- it j- it- it shouldn't even- Why are you building a building on an overpass?
And then patching it up calling it safe.
I don't think that's safe, I don't think there should be a building up there.
That's what I'm saying, like it's j- it's that- DC is that desperate.
DC offer all kinds of money to grocery stores to open up.
That's why- why you think they finally let Walmart in DC?
Why you able to-  Th- you have- the things that they are doing is to get people in the city.
They're bringing them here, they're drawing them here like a magnet.
And it's gonna be that way for a while  because they figured out what works.
Oh, these young millennials, they like that DC is city  but still urban.
Just like,  you know, suburban, like they can still walk,  you know, home and  ride their bikes to work and  th- you know, go out and have a good time and,  you know,  still be  safe and,  you know.
They love it.
They love it.
They figured it out.
They got a formula.
Oh boy, it's gonna get ugly.
I- you know what, I don't really-  I don't really think that  they can fully take east of the river.
I don't think they can.
I think they are trying to,  But I think  even if they put all the buildings that they wanted up,  and they did everything they could to kind of make it this new, shiny space,  east of the river has a  disconnect from the rest of the city so it's never gonna quite be like downtown  or uptown or anything like that.
East of the river was always it's own kind of thing.
And  there is  a very, very strong historical  black presence in east of the river.
I'm talking about like Frederick Douglass home strong, you know what I mean.
So there  is something there  that they can't fully take away from  the people that were there.
And even just the fact that everything that's around  east of the river it's  it's still gonna be those people.
Even if you push them they not going far, they right there next to you.
Cause you can't do but so much w- they- once they hit that Maryland line.
They still gonna come right across the street,  and come on down and hang out.
Like right now on m- um, on Minnesota Avenue, they got that big beautiful building on Minnesota Avenue, you walk and you look past and it's just a bunch of a- black people standing outside.
They just standing there not bothering nobody.
They not bothering nobody, they out there though.
They're not- they- you know what I mean, they're gonna still-  I th- I feel like they just gonna still like kind of linger in that area, I don't know.
Um that's my guess for east of the river.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's what I notice.
They- they- Like even on Minnesota Avenue there's a Popeye's right there.
I noticed that.
They di- Yeah, you know what I mean, like I- I noticed that.
There's little things  and I think they will- See,  the thing is, there's also with this whole process, um, and with everything else going on in the nation and all these  racial issues that really  isn't-  Like  honestly   the way that people  are approaching racism right now is just-    I don't know, like I feel like people aren't really-  All these debates that I see on social media- I guess I should say  they're on social media.
I saw- I saw actually a funny one the other day.
It was a- it was a post  that somebody posted and it said, dear white people,  aks any question you've ever wanted to aks a black person.
You saw it?
Yes, okay.
So if you go to the original post-  Cause there's  hundreds of  comments on there.
It was good- it was good to see people like posting funny stuff and trying to get down to the root of little, um, stereotypes and things like that.
But I think that  when we start  trying to  genuinely understand each other      and not assume we know each other then we can approach racism.
Then we can approach racism.
That's the difference, that's the difference.
If you're approaching it as  I already know everything about you, tell me something I don't know,  that's not-  that's not-  what?
No.
That's not how you do that.
You have to approach it with  I know stuff but it  could be wrong.
Can you help me understand so I know better?
That's how you approach it.
It's not hard.
It's just a- just-  just a slight-  you know what I mean, sw- slightly different approach.
And you will get a much different  response.
So  with like,  the w-  the way that people are in this area,    you can kind of see it, like you can see that there's-  And it's not even that  we hate each other in this area it's just we don't understand each other.
It's like the way that the white people look at the black people in this area and the black people look at the white people, it's just- you just- you don't understand each other.
Because  there- now there are a lot of white people in this area that are from places like-  you know what I mean,  they're- they're from all over the country.
They grew up in these small towns, these rural homes and they just- they don't  understand.
They just never had encounters where  they can see it from a different perspective.
A lot of times this is their first time in a city.
This is a city to people, DC is a city to people.
And yes it is a city, but its like nowhere near like New York or something.
You know what I mean, DC is still manageable.
And people  still come here and they're like in awe of DC.
So,  like I think if- like if we just  you know,  took the time to do more to understand each other.
And you- you can see it all over DC.
I remember,  um,  seeing Trump signs up and then somebody spray painted over the Trump sign, fuck, so it say fuck Trump.
I remember, um, it was very tension- uh, the tension was thick in this area when- when that election went down.
That was-  that was the most contentious I've ever seen race in this area, um, was at that time.
And  but at the same time,  I know  lots of people  who  like  have friendships like,  you know what I mean, interracial- int- interracial friendships and it's nothing.
Like because they grew up in this area too.
So you know that they get it,  like they understand it's certain things you can and cannot say, it's certain things you can and cannot do.
But I think people from the outside coming in  don't really get that.
So I don't think it's like a- uh, a race thing in this area, I think it's like a- like a inside outside thing.
Something that's inside, um,  that's particular to this region.
Okay so like,  inside stuff for us that we know and that, um,  kind of we all understand together is like,  the policing system in the area.
Like,  if you talk to anyone,  and this could be black or white,  they know that,  okay,  in Virginia,  you may get pulled over for less  and held for more.
Like they will- they will  pin- pull you over for next to nothing,  and pin you with everything they can.
Doesn't matter.
If- if i- if you get pulled over in Virginia, just know that they're gonna throw the book at you.
That's something that  we know.
Versus driving  in  DC,  whereas  you have to be doing something  almost extreme  for them to really mess with you.
Because  people buck U-turns in the middle of DC streets.
Nobody cares  about driving in DC.
People- they will buck a U-turn in a heartbeat and just keep it going going about their way, in front of an officer.
Police officers do it too.
It's a difference.
But you wouldn't do that in Virginia cause you know  it's just a U-turn, but they're gonna get you, they're gonna throw the book at you.
Versus, you know, being in Maryland, driving through certain ar- areas in Maryland.
Like certain areas, the State Troopers are waiting for you in Maryland.
They're waiting for you, they have traps.
It's a inside thing.
We know.
So w- if we- if we-  you know, if we're talking about police in our area and how they behave,  it's not a race thing, it's not saying like, oh white cops is always on our back.
No it's a area thing, like no, it's just a- it's a- it's a- it's a inside thing.
We know, we know better.
That's a inside thing.
So if I say,  police are press in- press in Virginia,  they're like- you know, somebody from the outside must be like, oh wow maybe cause that's a predominantly white area, you think police are more  likely to pull you over cause you're black in Virginia.
No it's because the police are literally more annoying in Virginia.
It's not-  it's not a race thing.
You know what I mean, that's- that's kind of like a- I guess that's a- a way to put it in perspective, like we don't- It's not necessarily a race thing it's just like the different areas to us, it kind of blends together.
And we know it's some- some stuff that's just like,  you know,  like some- like when we- when we make fun and we see white people running around in DC we know what they like, they like to run, they like to jog.
You know, you used to go into Virginia you'll see automatically  bike trails and paths and stuff like that, you don't see a whole lot of that in Maryland.
You have to go to a park area to find a trail almost.
Like you gotta go to like a regional park like it's gonna be like a county park or a state park just to get a trail to go  jog if you wanted to.
Different, it's regional.
It's not- it's not-  it's not black and white in my mind.
It's not because  the black people that lived in Alexandria got to jog when they wanted to so, you know what I mean,  they had access to the same bike trails.
We used to walk down that bike trail to go to the Seven-Eleven.
So it's not-  it's not really black and white it's like,  more like  just regional distinctions to me.
Oh I love Lyfting.
I meet the funniest people  Lyft driving.
Yeah, I do like it.
It's-  it's cool because again, I'm one of those people that need freedom, I need to be able to do it when I want to, so  it's good for me.
Um, it's flexible.
And then,  the people that I meet  are always interested and curious about  growing up here.
They always wanna know  where are you from,  and what's it like.
As if there is some  epic story to growing up  in DC that is- d- every- every DC native has, they must have some epic story about DC.
It is.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They make-  Yeah.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
Oh man, so that particular night that I met RD-NAME-1 I was catching a Lyft,  so.
What had happened was- I know it was totally different.
Um,  it was a Friday night,  I had got published in Capitol Romance that day.
Um, one of my s- photoshoots got published.
I said, you know what, screw it, I'm going out tonight, I'm gonna hit U Street.
Went out,  looked for parking for forty-five god darn minutes.
Couldn't find not s- stitch of parking near U Street.
So I drove all the way down  to Constitution Ave.
I said, I'm'a go over here by the government buildings where I know my car's not gonna get broken into and I'm still in the city,  and I parked my car and I called a Lyft from there.
The difference is if I woulda went all the way home  to Temple Hills and called a Lyft and parked my car at my house, that Lyft woulda been like twenty dollars.
I called a Lyft from Constitution Avenue to U Street, it was four dollars and sixty-seven cents.
Big damn difference.
Using my noodle.
So,  I was like, I'm going out,  I had called a Lyft.
Um, I was talking to the Lyft driver, it was a Lyft Line of course, and RD-NAME-1 got in.
Um,  and- and I was just talking and,  you know, it was one of those things where  I was being me,  talking about my publishing in Capitol Romance and everything like that.
And then it was just like, one thing led to another and it was like,  you gotta do this-  this interview because  I'm very curious to hear more of your story.
And that's usually like, you know,  how it happens.
I start talking  and people are like, what?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pretty much.
That's it.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Exactly.
That's it.
And the thing is, there's a lot of people that don't want people to know how to play the game.
It makes it easier for them to play.
It makes it easier.
Yes.
Oh man.
Um,  craziest experience.
So,  um,  I- I once did a wedding.
Mm, gosh.
And I wrote about this on my blog because it was very, very disturbing.
I once did a wedding  where  the caterer was  an absolute diva.
And matter of fact I've done a couple weddings where the caterer has been a diva, but in this particular case, the- the caterer was like, really, really upsetting.
Um,  it's pretty standard or at least normal in  my mind, and I don't uh, I b- I don't- I'm only the wedding planner here,  that the caterer, they usually have a team of people  that, um,  set up the tables and chairs,  you know, get stuff ready for- You know, just at least set the tables and chairs up.
And maybe they don't wanna put the linen on it, maybe a decorator drops the linen and the centerpiece.
They come back and put the place settings, stuff like that.
Work as a team.
If not the caterer,  then maybe the rental company, whoever dropped off the tables and chairs, but nine times out of ten it's the caterer, it's always been the caterer.
So on the day of this woman's wedding, the caterer was there, after we had already had issues about where she was gonna set up because the bride had changed venues.
And so the venue went from a indoor venue to a outdoor venue.
She had opportunity to come see the venue b-  beforehand but waited til the week of the wedding to come see the space,  the new space.
Um,  decided that, you know, the way that it was set up she wasn't gonna be able to do her job  as expected because the kitchen was too far from the tent.
So she wanted the bride to pay for another tent  so that she could have her own tent to be set up in.
Again, this is something that's in my mind, why don't you have your own tent?
You're the business person,  not her, why you making her pay for a tent?
But regardless, she- the bride paid for a tent so that the  caterer could be closer to the-  to the actual tent that the reception was in.
So on the day of the wedding, there she is in her little tent, she's getting it all set up.
Tables in-  the- the tables are broken down on the floor,  on the ground.
I'm like, oh, you know, are you and your guys gonna get these set up?
She's like,  oh, no I'm not doing that, if I do it it's gonna be another hun- two hundred and fifty dollars.
At this point it's this bride's wedding day.
You're not gonna come to me with any additional cost that you want me to take to her because that is gonna piss her the fudge off.
And my job as a wedding planner  is to keep her stress free.
She's supposed to be blissfully blind the entire day  so that even if stuff does go wrong,  she don't know about it.
She just thinks everything's going according to plan.
That is my job as a planner.
So no, I'm not about to go to her f- for this two hundred and fifty dollar  up charge that you wanna charge on the day of her wedding.
That was one thing.
You know, even after the tent thing I had to calm the bride down after that.
Even, you know, now on the day of, th-  the tables, I grab some- the groom and the- some- some- some groomsmen, hey- hey guys.
Can you get these set up for me?
I know you guys got a couple more minutes before you gotta get dressed,  just throw these tables up,  throws these chairs up,  and we're good.
Cause the ta- chairs are stacked.
That's some stuff you need- you need  man arms for.
So, um,  I'm a wedding planner, I don't carry man arms on me.
Um,  they got everything all set up.
Um,  we were getting through the day okay,  um, you know, even with that little hiccup.
As they were doing the place settings, I remember her staff kept coming to me,  kind of, um, asking me, you know, where do things go.
That's another thing, it's like, when your staff has to come aks me questions, what are you doing?
That's another issue I had.
Okay, still trying to get through the day.
Fast forward to dinner.
We know,  dinner time.
Vendors come to me and aks me,  because I'm the planner, they know I know,  what time can we eat,  where do we go to eat,  what are we getting to eat?
That's what they do.
They gonna come to me and aks.
They're not gonna go to the bride and aks because they know, they've already had in their contract they get a vendor meal.
The planner should know, cause she gotta eat too.
So they could all come to me.
So the band is coming up to me, maybe like two by two, three by three, they coming up to me anywhere, they're- they're aksing me the same dang question.
Apparently they aksed the caterer too,  before they aksed me.
So I- so I think I went back there to her space as she was getting dinner out to ask her.
I said, hey,  I know not now,  but I just wanna know,  you know,  whenever you're ready can you let me know  when the vendors  can go grab their food.
She  literally like  threw  a bitch fit,  and was like,  oh my god,  if one more person aks me,  I gotta feed  my- my- my- my guests first,  da da da.
Like she just went off, like slamming trays and like flipping out.
I'm like,  okay.
And I walked away.
That  was the craziest moment, cause I had never seen  a grown adult business person  throw  a four year old tantrum  in front of me  at an event.
That was the craziest thing.
Hit her-  She- she- she- um, she had the business with her husband, her husband had to pull her away and calm her down.
Maybe you shouldn't be in this business, lady.
Maybe you can't handle the pressure.
It's too much.
That was the craziest thing.
But I- I mean, caterers they f- I had one caterer,  uh, at a reception  gonna tell me, um,    when it's time to cut the cake  that the bride didn't pay the cake cutting fee and he wasn't gonna cut the cake.
Bruh,  charge it out on the back end,  cut the damn cake.
We're here at the reception, it's time to cut the cake and serve it to the guests.
Why you can't just charge her that on the back end and get your- Cause you- you b- Like,  I can't cut the cake, I'm not food safety certified.
I'm not about to touch nobody's food,  it's not my job,  I'm not getting paid for that.
It is literally your job to cut the cake,  cause you're the caterer.
You handle food.
Why would you not just cut the cake?
No, that was another time.
Like,  caterers are like, crazy.
They usually have staff,  that are    constantly revolving.
because it's like a on-call thing.
As you get events you- a caterer never knows, they can get booked today for something,  you know, two months out.
I don't- they don't know.
And then they don't know how much staff they need until they figure out how many, you know,  entrees or whatever the client is gonna need.
So it's a- it's a revolving door.
They usually have  staff that don't know what they're doing,  or, um, you know, the- the-  the actual person who's in charge  is in charge of too much.
Like, the way catering is tiered is like, you got your chef,  and like his assistant, and there's usually like a banquet manager that oversees,  um, everything.
But there should be some s- other people underneath the chef and other people underneath the banquet manager.
Like it should be  teams of people.
And I only know this cause I worked for a catering company before, and we had at least like,  two to three teams of people  that would come in and do events.
We had people in the kitchen that was setting plates,  we had people out on the floor that was doing the- you know, the place settings and everything like that,  and then we had people that was just moving big heavy stuff.
Cause that's what they was good at doing, setting up, you know, all the big stuff that we d- You know, so we had teams  and it was always like a- a- a smooth flowing process.
And we even had a person  that was over all the teams  that made sure each team was doing what they were supposed to doing.
It's like, you're supposed to manage a catering  company that way.
And so when caterers come in,  and it's just like, one person, one chef, and like,  three people,  like,  you- this all you got?
Okay.