I live in DC  In Southeast.
Yeah a lot has changed, you know.
Lot of people either locked up  or dead.
A lot of people you grew up with,  some passed,  some get killed,  or some just die from  natural causes.
Yeah that's the normal.
For DC.
Especially Southeast.
Southeast is known f-  for  being-  How would I put this?
Overly  violent.
We're a lot of violence around here I would say.
As far as shooting, killings and stuff going on like that.
It's been like that for years but,  you know.
That's how it been in Southeast.
The memory I have  would to be  always keep your grass cut  so you can see the snakes coming.
S-  stay in school,  you know,  stay hard at your work,  and try to get the best education  you can get.
I mean I got accepted to go to college but didn't go because of just stupid reasons, but yeah.
I didn't-  no I didn't attend any  college classes.
Um,  you know,  I felt like I didn't-  I didn't wanna do college or  I didn't have the right stuff to go to college.
It was just all some stupid stuff.
Yeah.
Just-  just being- just being stupidity, you know how we were at a young age.
Didn't wanna listen to nobody and thought we knew everything.
Like if we could all go back in time, That'd be it.
Well- I'm a home team native.
I like  Washington Redskins,  Washington Wizards,  I like  the Nationals,  I like the Capitals,  I like DC United,  I mean we could go on and more w-  I like the Mystics.
Anything that's home team I like.
My top three what, teams?
It would probably be  my Redskins first,  then my Wizards.
And probably- I don't know it's probably be a tie between baseball and  hockey.
It'd probably be a tie.
Cause when my Capitols win the god damn Stanley Cup boy you  we be the best.
Yeah yeah yeah.
Yeah I know you a- y- you is a hater, don't worry about it.
We understand.
Okay you's a hater.
We understand.
That's alright.
That's okay.
Yeah, yeah.
I done been- I done been to every game that I like I done been to one except DC United game.
I have not been- yet been to a DC United game.
Yeah.
DC United is our soccer team.
It's called DC United.
Oh you tryna be funny.
As- as far as what, the basketball f-  Oh.
The last time- last time a trophy rode through Washington DC, I was probably in about the eighth  or ninth- well it was ninety-two.
Ninety-one or ninety-two.
I believe.
You know?
And I believe you- you  t- helped celebrate the Redskins and you- you tryna switch.
Like you was a bandwagon at roadway pass and you jumped right on it.
Cause I remember you wearing Redskins stuff a long time ago.
Yeah I just told you we won the Super Bowl in- No, we didn't- no, our- we just got our Nationals, our baseball team cause it was always  Baltimore Orioles, you gotta remember that.
We just got our baseball team.
I mean they say we had one like early in the years but that don't really count for me cause I wasn't here.
But  we just got our baseball team and we been in the playoffs every year.
And as far- do you like, um,  who Dallas- what's Dallas, uh,  Texas team, what's they called?
The Rangers or something, Texas Rangers or something?
I bet you not.
Yeah we go-  yeah we go to the games I mean it's not- it's- Yeah and it's better to sit at the house.
Because when you sit at the house  you can do the things you enjoy.
But the games are nice too.
The games are nice cause you can be around y'all fans,  y'all all from the same state, you know what I'm saying, You all putting on for where you grew up at.
You know you don't just  vote for somebody else you never really been around there never seen them before.
You don't just vote for people you don't even know of, you know.
Like that- we don't do stuff like that around here, that's not what we do, we don't do that.
You know?
How could you vote for somebody else you never seen?
You know you- you don't even talk their language, I mean we-  A guy down in Texas he gonna say, hey buddy how you doing?
That's how I need you to talk if you like the Cowboys.
Yes, yes,  and we- that- that's a good thing, cause we have Wall star  and we have BB.
We have Otto,  we got Oubre,  we got Nene and we got Gortat.
Now,  speaking of that  when we- next year when we get KD.
See you keep talking about our championships when was the last time we brung something home.
When we do bring some home don't be trying to go party.
I need you to fly down to Dallas and- and share they teams with them man we don't-  I think they're doing pretty good man, they just need another key piece like, you know.
Their defense is on point,  you know, you just have your off nights and your on nights.
It's just, you not gonna-  I don't know what it is, like it's some nights we play good,  defense, everything.
We- I think we just need that one true star player.
Which is gonna be Kevin- Yeah.
Which is gonna be Kevin Durant.
He's gonna come on home, you know he's from Seat Pleasant, Maryland  so when you're from here,  you represent here.
You know?
You see how he got Seat Pleasant on his shoes, because he's from here.
He's a Washington Redskins fan, you know why?
Because he's from here.
And he's actually a true Wizards fan.
Wouldn't you believe that?
Now-  now what you been saying, with, you know, you like Dallas and everything,  do you know any of them people there?
I bet you can't, I plead the fifth with you.
I pr- plead- fifth with-  Oh no problem, no problem.
I mean not as close but we still call, you know, to say hello, how you doing, it's just a natural thing that we do.
You know.
Like it's like every day we'll call,  something happens, you call everybody around.
Make sure they okay or,  you know,  see if they-  yeah, say every day.
Mm-hm.