That's me.
June twenty six.
Nineteen eighty seven.
Washington, DC.
I'm from Uptown.
It's-  W-  I- So Uptown is- Do you know where  the Convention Center is?
Uptown is from the Convention Center up.
Up Georgia Avenue.
And it stops- Goes past Howard,  past uh- It stops at Silv- the S- Silver Spring line.
Yeah, all that's Uptown.
Majority of my life, yeah.
I lived in Maryland, too.
In Forestville.
District Heights.
Majority in a city.
I did go to a couple Maryland schools though.
Mm-hm.
UDC.
I am.
Volunteer coordinator for the RD-WORK-4, Greater Washington.
My mom was born here.
He was born in South Carolina.
Yeah.
She's deceased.
It's okay.
Her birthday was yesterday.
He lives in Atlanta.
H- He teaches basketball.
At elementary school.
Okay.
No.
I live down the street.
So like five minutes away.
Southeast.
Mm-hm.
I don't think so.
I- Well- Probably uh,  Simple City.
Now I'm not from Southeast.
Mm, okay.
But yeah.
Cause it's just- it's different.
It's different-  Since I moved  over here, it's so different than living Uptown.
The- The- The- The people.
The  neighborhood, like  all of that.
It's- It's- It's- It's more apartments on this  s- on this side of town versus uh, actual houses like uh, townhouses  or  what do you call them?
Row homes.
Uptown.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
They ratchet.
It's- It's- It's- always Yeah.
It's- It's always- I It's sirens.
It's  people  out all hours of the night.
It's just  confusion.
But it- it- it w- it used to be worse  around here.
I know that,  but it's getting better.
But  it's just different.
It's an adjustment.
Since January.
Mm-hm.
Uptown.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  majority of my life.
Excluding the years that I was in-  in District Heights.
Yeah.
Okay.
No, it's not.
Mm-hm.
Everybody Uptown rode bikes.
That's how we got around.
Um, all of my f-  I'm sorry.
All of my friends live on the same street.
I lived on Seventh Street.
Seventh and RD-ADDRESS-2.
That's a  strip,  too.
It used to be real bad, but it's not.
RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue.
It's close to RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue.
Um,  either  either I was up top, on Seventh and RD-ADDRESS-3  all the neighborhood kids or I was down bottom  uh, at the playground  at the elementary school RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah, it's not- it's not far at all.
I could walk to RD-WORK-3 from my old house.
Oh yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Right there.
Mm.
Mostly everybody rode bikes .
I did.
I rode bikes.
Um,  >  ever- everybody around there were friend-  I'm still friends with a lot of people I'm-  I used to be friends with, too.
No.
I have two older siblings and one younger one.
No, we did- we didn't grow up together.
Me and my brother did.
Mm-hm.
My younger brother.
He's twenty five.
Three year-  Mm-hm.
Yeah, we- We played together.
We kind of had- The older we got, the more  our group of friends like,  dispersed.
Like, it wasn't-  Younger?
Yeah we had the same friends.
But  we still have the same friends now.
But he- We just went in two different paths.
We walked around.
We did a lot of walking.
I w- I remember a lot of walking Uptown.
And riding bikes.
And just  chilling on my friend's porch.
Okay.
We did a lot of walking.
Mm-hm.
Around the neighborhood.
Cause Uptown is different neighborhoods, too.
Um,    it's T-Mob, which is Truesdell.
That's down- T-Mob um, fifty two hundred.
It's- it's in the same area as T-Mob.
These aren't neighborhood- It's different- N- Neighborhoods within a neighborhood, but a- this neighborhood is all together.
So it's- Yeah.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
CRT.
That's Crittenden Street.
Uh,  Fourth and Delafield  and- That's Uptown, too.
Yeah.
Sometime- Well, it- it didn't used to be like that, but  like, I'm'a say about five, six years ago,  it got really v- really violent up there.
And,  like, from  CRT up,  everybody was together, but CRT down,  everybody was together.
They were kind of- They were kind of like beefing.
And from one side of Georgia Avenue  to the other side of Georgia Avenue, they were beefing too.
I think it was- I think drugs had a lot to do with it.
It was drugs.
It was uh,  just people not liking each other.
It was a lot of-  it was a lot of hood beef.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, cause most of m- Honestly, most of m- m- the neighborhood people,  I'm- I'm still friends with a lot of the girls.
But most of the guys, are either  dead or in jail.
Because of what's going on- And my brother included.
My brother- He got in a lot of trouble being Uptown.
He went to jail a couple of times.
So.
Yeah, one of my friend- my friend RD-NAME-2, he was murdered  like three or four years ago.
He got stabbed.
Um, my brother's  best friend, he was  killed on Mother's Day.
Uh, three years ago.
Mm-hm.
Somebody just got k- k-  A friend of mine  uh, RD-NAME-1.
He got killed  in February,  right on RD-ADDRESS-5.
Prestige and that.
It's actually worse in Southeast.
It's worse.
Um,  it's not-  it's not ordin- It's not out of the ordinary to hear somebody  getting killed around  here,  around these parts.
But  when you hear about Uptown, it's like oh my God.
Can't believe such and such got killed  because it's like-  I guess Uptown's set in- in this-  on this pedestal, on a standard.
Like  they got  the best of the best things, or  this, that, and the third, but it's still-  When it all boils down to it,  people getting hurt.
People losing their lives.
Oh.
I think it's safe.
Um,  It's gotten a lot safer.
Because a lot of people-  Honestly?
I think people are getting older and from,  when I probably was in middle school or high school,  it weren't- it wasn't  that many people going to college.
Now and I see a lot of  people actually  caring about  themselves and their lives and  what they're going to do  opposed to back then.
The city has changed.
Like, especially physically.
Like, it's so many-  My dad- My dad comes up here once a year, but every time he comes, he's like, oh my God.
It looks so different.
A lot of people are moving away.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, it is.
It is.
They are.
But then-  Okay.
A lot of people are going to Maryland,  but Maryland don't really want  all this  foolishness going on in their city either.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It's real- It is.
It's scary.
I- It- It really really really really bothered me at first.
Because  it is still a lot of good people here,  but  you're soliciting people  with  higher education,  better  background- Not better, but a different  background.
It's- It's getting too expensive to live in the city.
It's so expensive.
Even on this end,  it's still very very expens- I wanted to  actually move, U- back Uptown but I can't afford it.
I can't afford to move Uptown.
And it's funny that you say  like,  you notice the diff- Like with this club.
This club, and this club's kids  are so different from  Clubhouse Six and their kids.
And FBR and their kids.
It's so different,  and i- it depends on the area.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Right.
It hasn't.
Mm-hm.
I noticed that too.
Hey yeah.
God willing.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 and I went to RD-SCHOOL-2  and to RD-SCHOOL-3.
So.
So, this is how it went.
I went-  I went to RD-SCHOOL-2-  I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, RD-SCHOOL-2.
Though both of those were  um,  Southeast  elementary schools.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, RD-SCHOOL-2, and then I moved  and went to RD-SCHOOL-2 in Maryland.
That's- I don't know.
No, no, no, no.
My mom did that.
My mom did that.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I think it was like, more convenient for whoever was going to pick me up,  or whatever.
But um,  and then I went to go live with my  aunt  in um,  I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
And I went to  RD-SCHOOL-3 Middle School and RD-SCHOOL-2.
So, it was very very different- I'm sorry .
It was different.
It was like a culture shock because  I'm from the city,  but,  I went to Maryland, and I got accustomed to the Maryland lifestyle.
Then I came back to the city.
It is, but it's so different.
Like, they get- they c- Me and my friends-  Me and the people I grew up around, we call Mary-  guys from Maryland, Maryland Mikes.
Cause they green and, you know.
They just have a certain  swag to them.
But it was different because  when I got to Eastern, it was  just really really  ghetto and  for it to be the pride of Capitol Hill, it was not the pride of Capitol Hill.
Now, I came in, and I f-  I really felt  like I was the smartest person at school because  they  didn't learn half of what I already knew  yet.
And w-  The reason I went, I uh-  had RD-SCHOOL-3 which is Uptown-  I had to go to RD-SCHOOL-3 because  a credit of mine in Maryland didn't count  in DC so I had to take n- a night school class.
So but, yeah that's why I said that.
And when I got to Eastern, it was  drinking.
It was smoking.
I could not believe where I was- I was like, oh my God.
Ma, you need to get me out of this school.
But I got used to it.
I got used to it.
I'm trying to think of that movie.
I- Not The Substitute.
It was- Uh- .
One Eight Seven too!
And uh Dangerous Minds too.
No.
Lean on Me!
It was just like that.
Like  books-  It w- They had no books.
They h- They didn't have anything.
And it was just like, geesh.
It was no teachers.
It was no- You know, cause you have teachers and you have educators.
Teachers came to get paid.
And I remember one- one of my English teachers, she was like,  I don't care what y'all do, cause I'm still gonna get paid.
So either y'all gonna learn, or y'all not gonna learn.
I'm like, what do you mean, you're still gonna get paid?
I want to learn.
This is important.
But people really-  I got introduced to-  Well,  I knew the Uptown girl gangs, but  it was a lot- It was girl gangs from all over the city in Eastern.
Cause people from y-  all of the city went to Eastern.
From Uptown and um,  s- the South side, Northeast  and Southwest.
Uptown is Northwest.
Northeast- Northeast is like um-  This is considered Northeast.
Northeast, Trinidad, uh, Brookland, all that's Northeast.
Southwest is like down by  the Nat Stadium and all of that.
Across the river.
Like by um,  Third World and all that.
Thir-  Third World's Third Street.
It's really- Barry Farms, you heard of Barry Farms?
MLK.
Which, I think that's gonna be the last  to get  a makeover,  but I think that's going to be the biggest makeover.
I'm gonna be sad to see that one.
Because I know that  it's not gonna be that many black people in the city.
Yeah, it's not gonna be Chocolate City anymore- Don't nobody even call it Chocolate City anymore.
Yeah.
Oh, it's bigger than swirl.
We got a little shr-  pinstripe.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
But the little bit of- The little bit of- The-  Uh-uh.
You got to pay extra for-  Okay.
It was so many girl gangs at Eastern.
And I was cool with all of 'em though.
I didn't-  I didn't run with a clique at all.
I never- Yeah.
And I- and I think that that's like now, that's how I know so many people.
It was Most Wanted.
It was YBS.
It was um,    uh, who else?
Yellow Brick.
It was so many-  so many girl gangs.
S- I think- Some of 'em, they were f- They used to fight, but most- like, m- I know most W- Most of the Most Wanted hunnies were related.
They were-  related.
Mm-hm.
I don't know.
I was- I was never scared.
Only when they said the sniper was  r- riding around out Eastern.
That's it.
That's when I got to Eastern, yep.
That's it.
For real?
Oh yeah yeah yeah.
Somebody did- They-  Uh- I don't know Virginia like that.
Right across the brid- It is.
But it- Even- It's-  You got-  I guess wherever you're from  in a five to ten mile radius,  that's what people conform to and identify with.
Like,  n- Even now, like you said it- it- It's the ninth- Some of Maryland is the- The outskirts of DC, some of Maryland is the ninth ward right?
But if you go down in Waldorf and Bryans Road, it's totally different.
It's totally different.
Just like in  Arlington and Alexandria.
It's totally different.
I don't- I don't- I don't identify with DMV.
I'm not from the DMV.
I'm from DC .
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Maryland or Virginia.
Cause they always say DMV.
Mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
Tougher.
Uh, no.
It just like- Some-  Yeah.
No I just went to the night school.
Right.
I'd rather had went to Roos during the day.
Only because it was like, down the street from my house.
And all my friends went there.
All my neighborhood friends went to Roos.
Mm-hm.
My brother went to Roosevelt and MacFarland and all of that.
Well I-  MacFarland closed now I think.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah they closed now.
Oh okay.
Mm-hm.
Because for like, a good six months,  we were living in Northeast.
We- We were on RD-ADDRESS-7.
We were on RD-ADDRESS-8.
That's Uptown, off Missouri Avenue.
And then we moved to  Northeast cause my mom got a  three bedroom instead of a  two bedroom that she originally had  Uptown.
But then she did not like it.
The landlord was on some shady stuff,  so we moved  back Uptown to Seventh Street.
Right.
And my brother was in uh,  he was- At the time, he was in  middle school.
He was about to be in middle school.
Right.
Cause he went- He went to- He went to RD-SCHOOL-2- He went to RD-SCHOOL-2, RD-SCHOOL-2 and RD-SCHOOL-3.
So he is- He all the way- All- Yes.
He has that tattooed on his- on his ass.
Uptown.
He got  UP town.
No, that's not cute.
Mm.
He do.
He was.
He still- He- I mean he still aff- affiliated.
He still  get in trouble with them  at twenty five.
I think if you've been to jail enough times, you would think that you would get it,  but not my- my brother's very hard headed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My brother is a hood ninja.
I don't say the N word.
Alright?
So I substitute it with ninja.
That's fine.
Take it and run with it.
Well,  first I went-  I was online.
University of Phoenix.
Cause after high school I didn't- I was so turned off of school.
I  didn't go back to school for like two to three years.
So I was a late  first time college student.
But I didn't- My mom was sick, so I didn't want to go away.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
It was fun.
It was- Then that- It was like   the thirteenth grade.
Because everybody I knew from all over the place  that wanted to better themselves, they went RD-SCHOOL-3.
Yeah, Uptown.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Have you- Have you ever seen the old Wood- You saw the old Woodson?
It remind me- me of the old Woodson high school.
Yeah.
It looked like a- a jail.
They called it a jail.
But it looked like uh, it looked like that.
But yeah- That was- It was fun.
It was  um-  Even going on the train, riding the train up there,  it was like, okay.
You can tell we about to hit Silver Spring or get close to Silver Spring because  it's like not a lot of black people on this train no more  going up the Van Ness.
But it was a good experience.
I met a lot of good people.
I met my son's dad there.
Well actually, I met him through my brother, but we went to school together too.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Mm-mm.
I met-  I met him  right on- outside of my house.
My brother introduced me.
He was one of my brother's friends at first.
Criminal Justice.
Mm-hm.
I'm still pursuing it.
Oh no, I'm not doing that at all.
Nothing- Not- Nothing in my field, no.
No.
To be a youth advocate.
Between a youth advocate  um-  Cause forensic science is  my minor.
Yeah.
But um,  my brother actually  inspired me to want to do youth advocacy because he got in trouble so much.
And he didn't really have-  What I noticed  him and his friends,  they didn't really have the resources to better themselves.
Like, especially after they  got a record,  it's really nothing that  they can do for real.
But  he inspired me.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And that's- that's- And that's another like um,  dilemma is like okay,  now  you're not a youth  anymore.
You're still young  but  is it adult advocacy.
Like,  what are you doing?
Human development?
Like what it- what do you- Where do you want to go?
I was just having this conversation with my brother  about  this hood stuff  the other day.
Cause it's- it's frustrating.
It's real life,  and he really doesn't feel like he can go anywhere or do anything  because of where he's from  and what's the stigma attached to his name.
No, and I'm trying to get him to.
Go down to North Carolina.
Go ahead.
His girlfriend down there.
I want him to go down there.
Personally,  um,  it's a culture block.
It's a culture block because  white people-  A lot of  home owners are- that are looking to buy-  Majority are not from  DC.
They're from out of town.
They're fresh out of school,  and they're coming into the city.
And you got people who've been here, who's doing the right thing and  just didn't get a good-  a good break in life,  and like,  oh, you coming in here.
You take- trying to take everything  that we have that, you don't even know like, the depth of our story.
This, that, and the third.
And then on the other shoe, they looking at like  you're not doing nothing with this city.
You're not valuing it,  like  y'all getting killed, and  you need to move up- Go ahead.
Go back down Maryland because we're coming and we're taking over everything.
But I do think it's a culture block.
Not daily.
I wouldn't say daily.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
It's- it's actually- DC is so diverse.
It's becoming so- It's a lot of Hispanic and um,  East African  cultures here.
It's a lot of Ethiopians and Eritreans and  Spanish people, outside of white people.
I think it could be good,  but- We still got a ways to go.
I like- I love th- I love that about it.
Thai food, yep.
And eighth street did not used to look like that.
It was so run down, and like- It's almost sad because  I remember how  Columbia Heights used to look.
It used to look  run down and beat up.
And now they're building it up.
And  Columbia Heights, it was  majority Spanish people there,  and now they're- they have to move away becau- They can't afford the rent.
You know?
So, they're building that up even  close to Silver Spring.
It's like,  they c-  start at Silver Spring then moving their way down.
Or started on the outskirts,  like Virginia, and it just-  it's taken over.
Uptown.
I used to  like, hang out, like- What do you mean hang out?
I was on Clinton.
We went to a cook out.
Mm-mm.
It wasn't.
I um-  I didn't want to stay around  where I live  because I knew that it was gonna be a lot of people outside  doing a lot of-  Like,      even though  my a-  Uh, they just recently renovated my apartments.
I'm like the first one in my apartment, but  outside of my apartment- outside of those bricks outside of my apartment, it's still a lot of  drug addicts,  junkies,  alcoholics,  kids running around with no parents.
And I have a son, so I d- I don't-  He doesn't- I don't want him to know  how to be that- that kid.
I don't want him to get caught up in that-  that lifestyle.
We like to go downtown.
Uh, we'll go to  a lounge or  a bar- I don't drink so I'll go with them and just hang out with them  at the bar or something.
I love go go.
I- I just went to-  I went to go see Backyard uh- On Friday.
On this past Friday.
They were actually at  Saint E's, you- The old Saint E's?
The old mental hospital?
Off MLK?
They redid it, and so they made it into a pavilion.
And it was my first time going.
It was so nice.
It was really really nice.
My first go go was at the Black Hole Uptown  by six forty.
It's- If you ride past it now I think it's like a dental- a dental office or something.
Yeah, it's like a dental office.
Um, but my first go go was to go see Backyard.
I wasn't even old enough, but I still went.
When I got old enough to hang with my sisters, one of my sisters took me.
And I always listened to it.
I've always heard go go, like it's a-  Since I can remember, it's always  been in  my ear.
My mom was just listening to it.
Everybody around me listened to go go.
I love go go.
Move.
I think it's the congos!
It's the congos, tambourine    and I don't think it gets  enough exposure.
A lot of people from out of town,  they hate it.
They hate it.
And I think it's be- it's- it's an a- it's an acquired ear  because they don't- They didn't grow up on it.
If I wasn't from here I probably wouldn't like it either.
I don't know,  but I used to go-  What made me stop,  besides the fact that I was getting older,  and I felt like I was getting too- too old to listen to go go.
Um,  it  instigated a lot of the hood beefs  that was going on.
Because a lot of the-  the band members  were  with the gangs,  like they be with the hoods, and  it was-  it was a lot of  instigating.
Like, the lyrics- They would do c- They would cover songs from artists.
But  they'll throw something  provoking in there.
Like    okay I know for a fact-  Where I'm from, my street-  It's not my street, but it's my street.
It where I- The street that I grew up on.
One of the Backyard songs is,  Don't ride through the KDY  meaning  if you're from where we don't like you from, like you're from a hood that we don't really  use to much-  mesh with?
Don't co- don't co- Don't ride through here because something will happen to you.
Yeah.
They do some original stuff.
Mm-hm.
They do.
They put 'em on- Put you on.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
A hood sign, people getting it with shirts.
It- it was- The go go was-  It was like an adrenaline rush,  and I say was because at the time,  when I was younger-  Cause go go, it kind of got a little  sloppy.
It wasn't as original and  not as good as it used to be.
And I think that came with the bounce beat.
It's  extra loud, extra fast.
It's-  It's-  What do you call it?
I'm not a m-  really a music person.
It's on the keyboard.
They make up the beats on the keyboard instead of actually playing them.
Yeah.
And it's-  Right.
And it's fast and it- it's loud,  but  it was fun.
The go gos used to be fun.
I got so many fights at the go go.
Fight.
It was awful.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
It was the older- older bands though?
Okay that's a older band.
See Backyard, What Band, Lissen Band, Familiar Faces, Groovers, those are older bands.
So like TCB, CCB, UCB,  MLB, TLB, those are younger- Yeah.
Those are the younger,  more violent driven bands.
Yeah.
Mm, probably candy ladies.
Candy lady's this-  sell the half sausage and the  uh,  the pickled egg and the sunflower seeds.
The candy lady will live next door to you.
She sells cigarettes.
She sell drugs.
She'll sell beer.
She sell- .
Weave?
Oh.
See?
Hm.
Yeah.
I guess.
Hm.
Oh yeah, mumbo Sa- I don't like mumbo sauce.
You do?
It- it depends on where you get it from.
And I think that's why I couldn't get- get with it because- Mm-mm.
I think the best mumbo sauce I- I'm  gonna tell you Uptown, but it was Uptown downtown.
Yeah, cause one- some of 'em are too sweet and some of 'em too spicy.
Yeah.
See I love hot sauce, but I don't like- I don't like nothing sweet on my chicken or my french fries.
Hm.
What else?
I'm trying to think.
I can't think right now.
Mumbo sauce, um,   I don't know.
I'm'a come back to that.
I'm still thinking.
Really?
You see it all the time?
I don't know- I- I don't- The lipstick,  it's gotten bad.
Red in particular, I don't know, but  the light colored lipstick, the chalk, powdered donut color lipstick.
Uh-uh.
It's awful.
What else do we do here that I don't really see nobody else doing?
I don't know.
Mm.
That's so much, Minnie.
Okay.
Um,    I recently saw this girl that I know.
She  chased her daughter's dad in a car,  and he was in a car.
She got pulled over  because the police caught her,  and she got a five hundred dollar ticket,  and her daughter was in the backseat,  not in the carseat.
And her daughter's not like- not even one.
Um,  so after she got the five hundred dollar ticket,  she dropped her daughter off like with a crackhead  to go  chase the baby daddy.
Yeah.
Mm-mm-mm.
The most ratchet .
I don't know.
That is ratchet.
Probably  all of  the politicians that come in and out of DC.
Mm-hm.
And it's- it's so- it's so- It's funny and it's sad that  people from  DC, majority of the people from DC,    have  never been downtown on the mall to see  anything.
They don't know,  and p-  and people who aren't from here, that's what they know.
That's what they identify DC with.
But DC is a whole backstory, and  that's why I said that it was kind of sad that it's changing because  nobody's gonna get to see the people  of DC, only the people that moved here and  settled here.
Kind of sucks.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
No- Nope.
Yeah, yeah.
It's- it's- And I think that that's- that's why a lot of people are coming here.
It's a beautiful city.
It's a really beautiful city, and now  it sucks that  you're building it up now  opposed to  back then.
DC used to be so rundown.
So rundown,  like no one- nobody used to want to live here at all.
Oh you from DC?
You dirty.
You ghetto.
You from DC.
That's wh-  th-  Growing up, that's all I heard.
DC is it.
Like my- all my friends from like all over the country-   you live in DC, you're so lucky.
You get to see everything.
I don't, but okay.
Not really.