Twelve twenty three,  nineteen eighty three.
Was born and raised in Washington DC.
Um, more specifically,  I was, uh, born in Columbia Hospital For Women,  which is now  a Whole Foods.
Nope, Trader Joes.
I grew up east of the river.
Um,    there was a  uh, housing  uh, area called Stanton Hill Apartments.
Now it's called Stanton Glen.
I-  I've-  DC has been my home base all of my life,  but I've bounced around a bit.
Um, I lived in Baltimore for a while,  and  there was a while when I was on tour,  uh,  performing,  and I wasn't really  living anywhere.
I was just kind of everywhere.
Uh, that was about a year.
Yeah.
I lived in Baltimore for about a year as well.
Which- uh,   which level?
Um-  I went- Okay.
Cool.
Alright well,  we'll start  from the beginning.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School.
Um,  and then, after RD-SCHOOL-2,  went to RD-SCHOOL-1 Junior High School,  which recently got knocked down.
Um,  then,  I went to  RD-SCHOOL-2, RD-SCHOOL-5, and RD-SCHOOL-2.
And then closed out  high school  at  RD-SCHOOL-14 High School.
I went to college for a little bit.
Um,  for a stint  I attended RD-SCHOOL-8.
I- as well as RD-SCHOOL-2.
But    it wasn't for me.
Um,  I didn't  actually want to be there  at  either- either one of those times.
Um,  I felt like if I had a break-  if I had taken the break,  um, and had a gap year,  I actually would have finished  school.
But  I neve-  I had been in school non-stop.
I never, you know, missed anything for real,  and I never got that break.
So,  I wanted it.
I demanded it!
Yep yep yep.
Uh, I am the Youth Health Educator under Social Mobilization  for RD-WORK-5.
Um,    also, uh,  known as the RD-WORK-6.
Uh, we work  to provide HIV prevention education for youth thirteen to twenty-four.
Um,  I s-  more specifically  do- uh, I plan events,  uh, geared around HIV testing.
Uh,  but  I plan  cultural  and fun  events,  uh, where we offer HIV testing  uh, in hopes of normalizing,  uh, testing.
Uh, as far as I know,  my father was born in the area.
Um,    he currently resides in Maryland,  um,  near New Carrollton.
Um, my mom,  I believe was born in Shenandoah,  Virginia,  and then moved up here shortly after.
Most of my family's from Shenandoah, Virginia.
Uh, my mom  at- works as a patent clerk,  uh,  for the,  uh, RD-WORK-7, US Gov.
Um, my father  is currently- um,  he's- he's  healing from a stroke,  and so  not really working right now.
Okay.
Stanton Hill.
Um,  the apartment was cool.
Um,   like, uh,  who- who lived there?
I had  my mom,  grandmother,  great-grandmother, and my uncle.
Um,  believe it was a  two-bedroom and a den.
And  me and my mom slept in the same room.
I believe my grandmother  and  great-grandmother slept in the same room for a while  until she passed.
No,  there were three bedrooms.
I had to think that  through.
Yeah, there were three bedrooms  and a den.
My uncle slept in the den.
Um,  third floor  corner.
And it was- uh,  like I enjoyed my- my  early childhood.
Like that was real cool.
Um,  I really  enjoyed having s- all that family around me.
Um, I was a only child.
My  uncle  was kind of wild.
Like-  or- he still is kind of wild,  but he is less wild now.
Yeah.
Stanton Hill,  it-  I imagine cause I- I don't have actual facts on this,  but like,  I know it was- it was jie,  thugly.
There were- there times when like, you know,  you c- you had to play the game of, uh,  cherry bomb, firecracker or gun.
You never know which one b-  was which.
Um, not at that age.
Um,  but it was- it was alright.
I was alright.
Um,  coming out  of Stanton Hill Apartments,  there was like the Bruce Place  sort of neighborhood,  and then,    oh man.
It was a project that they knocked down like about ten-  ten years ago.
Um, so I don't remember where that is, but it was right across the street from Turner Elementary.
My mom was like, no,  you are not going to Turner Elementary.
It's too much.
The bamas is crazy.
I was like,  you right.
I'm not going to Turner  cause those bamas are crazy.
Um,    yeah.
Other things,  there was a cut that you could take through the woods,  and it would open up  to  a playground.
And the playground had this  ridiculously large, or at least, at the time it seemed ridiculously large,  um, steel rocket.
It looked kind of like a bomb pop.
And I would hop into the-  into the rocket and try to climb all the way to the top.
Remember being a little kid  and being scared to go all the way to the top.
And then getting a little bit older, maybe around seven,  um,  and then  climbing all the way to the top and just kind of hanging out there and that being my spot.
Um,  and then,  a little bit later as a child,  I came back  and that joint was knocked down.
I was like, oh no.
Where did the bomb pop go?
Um,  but they had closed down that neighborhood back there  by then.
And so  that was Stanton Terrace.
They shut that down,  and so there was no reason to even have all that stuff back there.
Um,  there's some houses.
I hear it's mixed income,  so.
Um, and that's been there for about  I th- I feel like it may have been seven years.
It may actually be longer.
Cause my concept of time is kind of skewed now.
Um,  I hit thirty,  and was like, oh wait,  what year is this?
And when  did this happen?
So,  yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, I didn't hang out with a lot of neighborhood kids,  just cause them-  they-  like I said, they were jie,  they were jie wild.
Um,  unfortunately,  they were the kids that didn't have like,  a lot of folks  looking out for them.
So  they were just doing stuff that I didn't really care for.
So,  yeah.
And  hm,  I hung out a lot with my cousins.
Like a lot-  a lot of my cousins and the kids from school.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary,  and RD-SCHOOL-2  was  in close proximity to two other,  uh, major neighborhoods.
Um,  Woodland Terrace and    what was it?
It's Woodland,  it's right there.
No, it's Woodland Terrace is right here,  and    what it- Langston Lane.
That's what it was.
Uh, Langston Lane and Woodland.
And so,  all of my  classmates  f- in elementary school, were from those two communities.
And for a while,  there was a time in the nineties that was ridiculous.
Like,  Woodland Terrace is right here.
Langston Lane is right here.
But they got beef.
So,  they ended up  shooting  at the ice cream truck every day.
It was just real nonsense.
And my church was right here,  and my school was there.
So it was just all  kind of ridiculous.
But  those were my friends.
They l-  they lived in these two neighborhoods.
And,    um,  you know,  We ended up going our separate ways toward junior high school and high school because  they were into stuff that  I was not getting into.
Um, a whole lot of thug and gang and this that and the third.
Um,  now I know they are just mimicking what they were seeing,  like seeing in the household.
Um,  it was one boy who,  he would like,  put white-out  on the desk,  and then scrape the white-out,  and then snort the white-out.
And it's like,  you know,  that's learned behavior.
That's not something that you just wake up one day and be like, ooh, this is gonna be funny.
Nah, like,  yeah.
So  that's kind of the stuff that  we were dealing with at that time frame.
Um,  I hung out a lot at the church.
I- Uh, RD-CHURCH-7.
Um, still there,  it's on, uh,  Ainger Place.
I never knew if they pronounced it Ainger or anger.
because in the nineties, we were saying  Ainger Place,  but now I hear people, and the bus,  saying anger Place.
But it's not spelled anger, as in I'm angry,  it's spelled differently.
Um,    anyway.
I digress.
Church was interesting  because that's where like,  I would have like, little crushes on folks,  and,  you know,  to varying levels of rejection  I was met.
Um, or introduced.
Um,  but, uh, yeah.
It's funny like- no,  like,  th- this all shows up in the poetry, so  you know, I'm okay now.
Um,  where was I?
Um,  so yeah like, uh, church was very interesting cause I'd been in church  since like-  they said since I was three,  but  I  kind of remember since I was six.
And  a lot of folks thought I would be a preacher  or like a pastor or something like that.
Um, and I guess in some ways I am,  um,  in a different type of church.
Uh, the church of the open mics and  all of that.
Um,  yeah.
That's interesting.
Uh, I was in church all the time though.
So,  Monday  my mother had- no,  Monday was karate  at first.
And then I think it changed to Tuesday or Thursday, I don't remember what day.
S-  we're talking twenty-eight years ago.
I can't do that.
Um,  anyway.
One day    was bible study.
Tuesday was youth bible study.
Um, I remember Wednesday was youth choir.
Uh, Thursday, I don't remember.
I think that was my mom's bible st-  uh,  choir rehearsal.
And then Friday was family fun nights  where, uh,  sometimes we would have some video games on a old black and white TV.
We're playing-  we're playing Mario One on this jont.
And I'm like, son.
I'm like, yo.
Like,  it was wild  cause Mario had been out for like two years before  I  really ever played it right?
This was like- that was like eighty-five.
I- I v- vividly remember  the first time I played Mario.
Um,  but then  we're talking like,  seven, eight years later,  and I got a color TV in my room.
Why we playing Mario, the first Mario, on this- TV had to have been about  thirteen inches maybe,  black and white jont.
We all huddled around it, tryna play Mario.
I'm like, son, this is-  we got to do better.
Like we- we can do better.
We can do  better.
Um,  but yeah.
That was that.
And then Sunday, we were back in church.
Um, Saturday was kind of my only day that I wasn't in-  in the church, some way, shape, or form.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Let's get to this awkward phase.
I already know where we're going, okay.
Continue.
Oh, no no no.
I- I- I like being asked the question.
It's- yeah.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
RD-SCHOOL-1- Well,  it was-  um- Yeah, it was  near Eastern Market,  so  across the bridge.
Um,  I wanna say it was eight o one  Eighth Street?
Nope.
RD-ADDRESS-3  RD-ADDRESS-7,  Southeast.
Um,  that  would have been-  nope.
Inaudible.
RD-ADDRESS-3.
That would have been it.
Um,  first school where  we  as a class moved,  and it wasn't-  and the teachers didn't move.
So in elementary school, the way it worked for us,  um,  we would stay  in one classroom,  and then different types of teachers would come to us.
So,  oh, it's music class,  my music teacher comes to my class,  and we talk about music and stuff.
Oh, it's, you know,  PE.
Our musi- our PE teacher comes to our class,  covers the health stuff, and then we all go outside.
Oh it's- you know,  so  for  junior high school,  we-  it was the opposite, it was inverted.
We would have, um,  all of my class would move together  to the next class and then to the next class.
And that was the first experience with that.
And that was kind of-  kind of wild.
Um,  I was in  Miss RD-NAME-2's,  uh, class, one o six.
And Miss RD-NAME-2's class was one of the gifted and talented classes.
And we didn't know-  so they- they had  GT,  um, in elementary school,    and,  you know,  like, there-  I was in GT  for like a few sessions,  and then I was just tired of being around that group.
And so I left.
Um, but I did-  I  got  put in a program called Project Two Thousand,  um, which was all about    uh, helping folks that would graduate in the class of two thousand and beyond,  um,  to remain in high school-  remain in school  so that they can graduate and go to college.
Um,  so I did that in elementary school.
Move forward to junior high school,  I'm in the gifted and talented middle- like in the g-  gifted and c-  talented  homeroom,  and there were two of us.
It was one o five and one o six.
Um, and then the rest were  I guess considered the standard?
And I never understood that.
Um,  now  with  different perspective,  um,  it's interesting.
I'll-  I'll leave it at that  cause I imagine we'll talk about that later.
Um,    Miss RD-NAME-2's class  was where  I learned I  didn't  always  fit in  with the rest of my class.
In  elementary school, I didn't fit in with the rest of my class always,  but I didn't know.
Like I just kind of was like, oh,  do do do do do.
Where  in junior high school, I started realizing,  oh shit,  I don't fit in,  this is -  this is  not me.
Um,  and  one of my best friends liked-  funny enough,  the second day of school, I end up fighting this dude.
Um,  went by the name,  or, goes by the name RD-NAME-1.
Um,  and I ended up fighting him,  and then we became like, best friends,  and played video games and were like, the dorky like,  pair.
Um,  things I remember about junior high school.
Um,  a lot of judgement  based on outfits    and like,  clothing.
Um,  a lot of talk about  masturbation.
More particularly, the phrasing  beat your dick.
Um,  I remember in junior high school,  not knowing  what  the hell I was supposed to do  when trying to masturbate .
And so  th- I remember like,  t- oh God .
Here we go!
It's share time!
Because you're getting the stories.
Um,  I remember  being in junior high school  and  youngins were like,  oh well you got to have sex before  uh,  you can nut in 'em.
Like- like, that was a phrase that like- folks were like, yo,  you have to have sex before you can like,  ejaculate  into a young lady  because then  they can get pregnant.
It was like,  whoa.
Like,  that's nuts.
Literally.
And- uh,  and for me, I was like, I'm not even thinking about u-  Wasn't thinking about sex.
Had crushes.
Was like, oh she's pretty,  but like not interested in like, putting anything in anyone else.
Um,  so that was-  that was  k- kind of shock  there.
Um,        yeah.
Masturbation was a whole  thing.
Like not knowing  how to beat my dick.
And thinking like,   do you like,  smack it?
Like, what the f-  like,  but not feeling comfortable asking a health teacher or anybody else.
And  like you know, masturbation is one of those things we don't really talk about.
And  yeah like-  like,  I don't-  I wouldn't feel comfortable  with a junior high school student  asking me.
You know , like, How do I beat my dick?
And  I teach health  education.
Like I talk about sexual health  every day.
Um,  and so  yeah.
I guess it would depend on the forum  cause I could- I could be like, look this-  Just saying it out loud is just weird.
Anyway.
Anyway.
Yeah.
That was a whole confusing situation there  um, as a- as a junior high student.
Um,  I saw  the separation between the gifted and talented  and  the-  what folks would consider the standard class,  when  a whole group of my peers went to wood shop  and a-  and my class ended up getting typing and technology courses.
Um,  yeah.
That's when I noticed, I was like,  damn, I wanna take wood shop.
Like,  that sounds like a fun course.
oh but no, that's not your track, RD-NAME-2.
What?
So, I'm not supposed to like,  fuck with saws and all this stuff.
Why?
Why am I not allowed to do that?
And then,  why can't  RD-NAME-2 who is in,  uh,  class A-  what was it, B thirty s-  B thirty-four,  why couldn't they, um,  take  technology class?
Why can't they take  uh, typing?
And I started thinking about that like, why are they keeping us separate?
What is going on there?
Um,  that's when I started to question the school system and  this that and the third.
Um,  joined the junior high school choir,    and that was fun.
Um,  sang,  and I was in  the church choir.
And so that followed me into junior high school.
Um,  and that was one of those moments where I felt  connected  to other folks  cause  music, no matter  what kind of music,  like,  usually the vibe will bring  together certain groups of people.
And so the- the choir groups, we were all kind of chill.
Um, and they were sort of like-minded.
Um,  there was heavy emphasis on wearing Jordans at the time,  and  I remember in the- the music group, there weren't many people wearing Jordans.
And I felt  good  cause I didn't  wear them either.
Like I didn't have money for it.
Um,    yeah.
Favorite subject,  English.
My homeroom  class,  uh, was-  my homeroom teacher Miss RD-NAME-2, she was a English teacher.
And  she was one of those teachers who,  looking back at it now,  um, she was very human with us.
Um, whenever  her then boyfriend,  um,  would like,  be out of town, she would be sad.
And we would see that, and it would be a thing.
Um, when he would come back in town,  you would notice.
She'd be  visually giddy.
Um, and like, oh, like, that's what's up.
And like,  that's-  that humanity  um,  resonated with me.
Um,  yeah.
And I'll  talk a bit about that a little bit later too.
Um, she was the first teacher  that  straight up told me-  like, I- I got  detention for something,  and I just  did not wanna do the work.
This was eighth grade.
Just was done.
I was like, I'm fucking through with this shit.
Everybody  joning on me.
I'm  angry and   and  hormones and  didn't know they were hormones at the time.
Uh, I was like,  this is  bullshit.
And then Miss RD-NAME-2,  um,  she put me- she made me stay after school,  and  like,  she would just-    she had this real heart-to-heart moment with like,  RD-NAME-2,  why?
Like, what-  what is going on?
Like,  you're a smart kid.
Uh,  why don't you just-  why are you not doing the homework?
Like, why are you not doing homework?
It's like, cause I don't feel like it,  and I'm frustrated.
I don't wanna be here.
And she was like, RD-NAME-2,  do the homework,  and you get to leave.
This is a means to an end.
You do the work,  so that you can go.
Like,  finish your work.
Just make it through school,  and the rest  is  the process of you just figuring it all out,  how it applies.
I was like, yeah,  I hear you,  but ah, hormones still,  right?
But it got through.
Um,  and then the-  the next year  Miss RD-NAME-2 wasn't with us anymore.
She- um,  she  left the school.
I think  her and her husband got married.
I remember that.
Um, she was really excited when he proposed, and  we all were really excited for her too.
Um,  and when she found out she wasn't coming back to the school the next year, we all wrote letters to her.
Um,  yeah.
Miss RD-NAME-2 holds a very  special place in my-  in my  teacher  land.
Um, I appreciate her.
I think we may be friends on Facebook,  but the last name changed,  and so I wouldn't know.
Um ,  and  again, it's been years.
So like, trying to remember-  I'm'a- I'm'a look her up.
Um, I remember    right around when I was graduating I was looking for her as well, just to be like, oh yeah, like, I did it,  I did it.
You know?
Um,  and I think we- we got back in contact for awhile.
She's-  last time I checked she was still in the-  the DMV area.
But  yeah.
Yeah.
Well- ninth grade.
Um, that's a- well- I- I still- still had ninth grade,  um, and that's when-  oh my gosh, I don't remember her  name.
Um, but it was a different teacher for my ninth grade year,  and while she as alright,  she wasn't like,  she wasn't Miss RD-NAME-2,  so I wasn't cool with that.
Um,  cause I knew Miss RD-NAME-2 cared, and I knew Miss RD-NAME-2 cared about all of us as much as I knew she cared about me.
Um,  where-  I think it was Miss RD-NAME-2 or Miss  RD-NAME-2 or something.
Miss  insert name,  um, I did not feel that she cared as much for us.
Um,  that was also  one of the years- I got jumped  outside of my school.
I was hanging out on a basketball court,  waiting on a friend of mine who was playing basketball,  and some youngins was walked up,  and like hit me upside the head    with a-  it was like,  newspaper  that they wrapped up  and then taped up,  and like, just  hit me upside the head with it.
And so I got up,  and I fought for awhile,  but it was like seven of 'em.
And that's not an exaggeration  cause I know how sometimes when you get hit upside the head  things get blurry.
Nah, it was at least seven of them.
Um,  and I ran back into the- uh, into the school, and they're like, why are you in here?
Blah blah blah!
And I'm like, yo, I just got jumped.
Like why the hell are y'all treating me like I'm a criminal?
Y'all know me!
My homeroom right there!
Like come on.
Look out for the cookout!
Um,  and so they went out there and tried to find the dudes.
Of course they were gone by the time.
Um,  and I remember  a Marine  was over there doing some drills,  and he didn't stop and help.
And that's when I started having issue with the military  cause I'm like, you a mother fucking Marine.
Like you the  biggest,  baddest,  hoorah.
Y'all go hard.
This that and the third.
Jump into  plane.
Jump out of a plane.
Shoot people.
You couldn't stop  like a couple of youngins that were beating up another teenager?
For real?
So  that was a thought.
Still hold some resentment  toward that.
Um,    yeah.
So that's junior high.
Nope.
Um, prom.
Ninth grade prom.
I didn't ask anybody.
I wore a black silk shirt.
I fell head over heels  for the his girl who I danced with.
Um, we danced, and then ended up dancing with each other for the rest of the night.
She  is, uh, known affectionately  in my memory as Lavender Girl.
And  I remember  being like,  a weird writer and writing like,  comic books sch- scenes involving me and Lavender Girl like, being superheroes.
Alright?
Move forward.
No idea.
Never knew her name.
Um,  like,  like, legit like, we danced with each other at,  uh, ninth grade prom,  and  yeah.
That's a pattern,  um,  in my-  yeah,  that is a pattern.
Um,  at least now I know people's names.
Um,  and it's never- it's never sexual.
Like,  one night stands or anything like that.
It's always  a really intense  like,  moment of togetherness  that does not involve that type of intimacy.
It's always a moment of intimacy though.
Um,  be it-  um,  I went to a conference  in two th-  ninety-nine.
Yeah, I went to a conference in ninety -nine,  and  there was a young lady.
We- uh,  we ended up playing like, Jenga for hours or something like that.
And then,  afterwards,  we were all just hanging out in the youth lounge,  and we just laid next to each other,  and we shared like,  just  stories of,  uh, perseverance  and struggle.
And we just shared those stories for like,  hours,  hours, and then just fell asleep in each other's arms.
And woke up and never saw her again.
I remember she had  a tattoo under her belly button that said, boys lie.
And I was like, damn.
Like, that's-  I never wanna be the reason for that tattoo.
Um,  yeah.
Or  the young lady, um,  in two thousand three  who I met at a different conference in Dallas, Texas.
And  we actually got snowed-in.
It was the blizzard of o three,  and  we were- we weren't able to fly back to DC because we were covered in snow.
And so we stayed, um, in Dallas for a extra week.
And I had met her,  um, she ran an infinity group at this conference,  and she told-  like,  it was for the- the goth and other kids, right?
And so  punk goth RD-NAME-2  walks into this, uh, infinity group,  and I'm like, oh this is cool.
Like it's a bunch of like-minded folks, and we're all doing HIV prevention work, and it's great.
And  it's being led by  this  young lady who's younger than me  in this situ- I was like,  what?
I don't even remember.
Nope.
Was it t-  it was definitely two thousand three.
She was sixteen?
No.
She was seventeen.
Cause I was gonna be  nineteen that year.
Yeah.
Um,  and so  sh- I walk in,  and it's this  gorgeous young lady,  um,  leading this workshop.
And she's talking about like,  you know, what are you looking forward to at the f-  at the conference and this that and the third.
And have you ever been out- out of your town before.
I'm like, yeah,  but  not like- I've never been to- you know, this is the furthest south I've ever been, but it's blah blah blah.
And  she had  each of us write a s- uh, secret.
Um, something that, you know,  we had been hiding, and we were looking forward to sharing  during the conference.
And  her secret was, I have a crush on somebody in this room.
I was like, oh that's interesting.
Right?
We end up hanging out  after the snowed-in situation,  and  it was so wild.
Like, we  talked about  music and how she was in a ska band, and  we ended up kissing.
And  I went back to her place,  and we just read poetry to each other,  even though her mom left us two glasses of wine sitting out.
And I was like, that's weird.
It's a set up.
It's a trap.
Your mom's tryna get us.
Um,  yeah, it was wild.
And  saw her again.
So,  you know,  Dallas, Texas,  DC.
Like, no way that we could ever make that work.
Um,  so  come to find out, I worked with one of her cousins.
And so  her cousin would come to me and be like, RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2 was asking about you.
Blah blah blah blah.
Leave me alone.
Don't tell me.
blush blush blush.
And  she ended up coming up here for a conference  like two thousand eight,  two thousand nine?
And it was just like old times.
It was crazy.
Um,  she's a DJ now.
I keep up with her,  um, through Facebook and  you know.
She's doing well.
I'm happy for her.
Yeah.
I have intense  ass moments like that.
Um,  and they happen fairly often.
Not often,  that's a lie.
It's like every couple of years,  um, this really intense moment of intimacy.
Um,  and I think it's because I personally  want to create spaces of intimacy  for all so that I can be a part of them,  and  I feel like,  we as a community,  um,  don't have  intimacy outside of romantic,  uh, interest and outside of sexual situations.
And so  we lose a certain level of compassion for each other as humans,  so.
Yeah.
Word.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Aw, yay.
Yeah, started at RD-SCHOOL-2.
So  high school,  with all those different locations, this sounds really interesting.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 for two days.
The second day of school, I jumped out the window and said, I'm not going back.
That's the most interesting part about it.
Um, cau- like,  so,  as I mentioned with RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary,  um, there were two different crews.
There was that Langston Lane  and Woodland, and they were right across from each other.
And way back then, they had beef.
Um,  and  by the time I got to high school,  they didn't really have beef anymore,  but they were  the-  pretty much the baddest folk  in all-  whatever school they're from.
Like, whatever school you go to,  if  somebody was there from Langston Lane or Woodland,  they were probably the most powerful thug within the jont.
Um,  and then  I knew them.
So, there would al- there was-  like, I got to RD-SCHOOL-2,  and I'm taking senior-  I was taking senior courses at RD-SCHOOL-2 as a tenth grader.
Um,  like,  I'm walking into class, and they're like, oh, what grade you in?
I'm like, oh, I'm in tenth.
Oh nah, that-  you can't be in the right class.
And then they call my name on roll call, and it's like, okay, yeah.
This doesn't seem right for me,  um, even though I'm in your class.
Um, then  like, I would see  all the youngins that I used to go-  go to school with, and  it-  they would be like, yo RD-NAME-1, you- you coming to- uh,  oh yeah, you don't need to go to class.
Come to  blah blah blah blah.
This that and the third.
Meet me over here.
Blah blah blah.
Nah, I'm good.
Like,  I didn't wanna be associated with that anymore  cause I knew where that led.
Um,    story.
Um,  I have to go back to elementary school.
It's those formative,  uh, memories.
Um,  I had a dude that would bully me  fairly often.
He was quite the asshole.
And  he ended up getting shot.
at  a  different  elementary school.
Um,  I think he was in sixth grade.
He was picking up his little brother  and got hit by a stray bullet.
Um,  and that's when I realized  no matter whether you're in the right place  at the right time,  it can still be the wrong situation.
Um,  cause he was actually doing everything that he was supposed to be doing,  and he got shot.
And  it wasn't  karma  for him being a asshole toward me.
It was just  the situation.
He happened to be there.
And  I  didn't cry  f-  at his  funeral.
I know I went.
I don't like funerals.
I-  I really don't like funerals.
They're-  they're too often for me,  and so I don't go.
Um,  that's that anxiety thing.
Um,  yeah.
So fast forward.
I knew where that had-  where that went.
Um,  so  by the time I got to high school,  I kn-  I didn't know everything, but I knew enough to be like, I don't need to be here at RD-SCHOOL-2,  and I jumped out of the window and left.
I mean it was the first floor window, wasn't  dangerous  or anything.
Um, and I went home.
And then the next day, I went  to RD-SCHOOL-5.
And so  Woodland  all went to RD-SCHOOL-5.
Langston Lane  all went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And so   I went from Langston Lane  to RD-SCHOOL-5 where all the RD-SCHOOL-2 folks were,  and  yeah.
Like I was there for a day.
Like one day.
And then the next week, I started at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  RD-SCHOOL-2 I didn't know  anybody.
I knew a few-  well,  that's a lie.
I knew a few folks from junior high school.
So like, s- a few folks from RD-SCHOOL-1.
I heard that Lavender Girl went to RD-SCHOOL-2 as well.
But  by then,  you know,  she was no longer Lavender Girl.
I would never see her in that lavender dress again.
I don't know,  um,  cause that- that was how I recognized her.
Um,    but  my friend RD-NAME-1  uh, went to junior high school.
I mean, went-  that I went to junior high school with  also went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And  I met some of my lifelong friends at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,    my boy RD-NAME-1,  my boy RD-NAME-2,  they both went to RD-SCHOOL-1 too,  but they were a year ahead of me.
In chemistry class-    oh!
Over the summer  before  going to high school,  I picked up Wu Tang Clan's, uh, Killer Bees mix tape, right?
So it was like,  I'm bumping Killer Bees.
I'm like,  yeah.
Like,  this my shit.
You know, boom boom boom.
I walk into chemistry class, right?
And, uh,  I sit down.
I had this one song- Ghost Face Killer,  um, he had adlibs on this one song where he's like,  Nah nah ,  nah nah.
Right?
So  I had that adlib stuck in my head.
I'm sitting in the back of chemistry class, and I go,    Nah nah.
And  from just that  the dude next to me is like,  youngin!
Oh my gosh!
Was that-  was that-  you know the Wu!
I was like,  what?
Yeah, that was- that was  Wu Tang Clan  off of Killer Bees.
He was like, youngin, you know Killer Bees!
Youngin, you know Killer Bees!
Youngin, who are you?
And  so  that's RD-NAME-1.
Um,  RD-NAME-1  is-  RD-NAME-1 is underground hip-hop  purist personified.
Like-  or he was at that time.
Um,  I would say now,  he is what  a hip-hop purist who has matured  sounds like and looks like.
Um,  RD-NAME-1- RD-NAME-1 is-  RD-NAME-1 became one of my best friends,  um,  and he's one of my ride or dies.
Like,  I could hit RD-NAME-1 up right now, even though we haven't talked in a couple of months, and be like, yo,  I'm coming over.
He be like, yeah, alright.
I'll get the ramen right,  and I'll  put on some kung-fu flicks.
Like, that'll- that's- that's us.
Um,  and then  in front of RD-NAME-1,  uh, was  RD-NAME-2.
And RD-NAME-2 was kind of the womanizer,  though he's really  a incredible dork.
This-  like, so I'm pretty dorky.
I l- I own my dorkdom.
Like, I'm a Nintendo,  kung-fu movie    and poetry dork, right?
Uh, RD-NAME-2 is a-  well I was a raver dork too.
RD-NAME-2 is a  EDM raver  um,    like, uh,  action figure-  both of them collect action figures.
And I believe still to this day,  do so.
Um,  that's like-  that-  that beca- they became my crew,  uh, in- in high school at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  I joined the RD-SCHOOL-2 choir.
And, uh,  that would then be my last choir.
Um,    we sang at Christmas in Washington    and that was really cool  cause we'd sung with Christina Aguilera and,  uh,  Kenny Loggins and a bunch of folk.
And that was cool.
Um,  I left the choir  at the end of that school year, and I retired my- uh,   my choir robe cause I figured nobody else could,  uh, fit it,  so I was like, I'm'a take this jont with me.
And  number twenty-six  choir robe from RD-SCHOOL-2 still sits in my closet today.
Um,    I left RD-SCHOOL-2  because  I dig into hooking school a lot,  um, and not going.
Um, and whenever there was a bomb threat,  ha,  bomb threats were an event  at RD-SCHOOL-2.
There were bomb threat- there was a bomb threat like once a week  at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Don't know why,  people just didn't wanna go to class, they would call a bomb threat.
Whatever.
Right?
So  but we would  all be taken out to the football court, \ad and so here are the bleachers.
The bleachers are,    uh, sitting  up against where the school,  uh, would be.
So like, it's the wall up against the school.
And then  there's the court  that you can run across,  and then there's more bleachers,  and there's a fence.
And then there's freedom.
And so  the bomb threat would happen.
Everybody would be sitting there patiently waiting,  um, on the bleachers.
And then that one brave soul would start  running across the field.
And then everybody else would go too.
And then the goal was get across the fence and outrun the police before  like,  you got  caught.
Um,  I remember one day,  I was the brave soul that  darted out there.
Um,  I got across the gate,  and I ran down the street,  uh, cut through a alley, got away from the cops,  and it happened to be free ice cone day-  I mean ice cream day at Ben and Jerry's,  so I went to Ben and Jerry's and got ice cream.
Delinquent, hood  RD-NAME-2 stories.
Boom.
Um, so there was- there was that.
Um,  it was a bittersweet moment when I left  RD-SCHOOL-2 though because I was finally starting to connect with folks.
Um, so that was interesting.
Like, leaving the school.
Um, we had to write-  oh!
My teacher, uh,  Miss RD-NAME-2,  my English teacher,  um,  she  had us  write  a paper  on  what we will be doing over the summer  or, uh,  things you wanna leave this class with.
And I remember writing that- um,  that  I was sad to leave that class because I was just starting to get  to know folks and that I knew that I wouldn't be coming back to that school in the fall.
Um,  and so,  it was a real like, touching sort of moment where some of my classmates were  really starting to be like, oh,  like, dang, like, little RD-NAME-2, like,  you started to mess with us, and  we started messing with him.
Um, I had a zero period  class  that would start at seven forty-five,  but that meant that I left school at half a day,  so  being a tenth grader with a half a day schedule was kind of cool.
Uh,  and I was in greenhouse and garden club.
And I learned how to plant  stuff and  plant trees and  I did that with RD-NAME-1.
That was cool.
Um,  RD-NAME-1 came out,  uh, to me, that was gay  in tenth grade.
And I was able to help support him  with  a myriad of things that he would come across, um,  come  in the future.
Uh,  so yeah.
That was- that was cool.
Um,  eleventh grade-  and I'll  put eleventh and twelfth grade together cause  it's all pretty fast.
Um,  I was at RD-SCHOOL-7,  also known as RD-SCHOOL-6,  um,  for eleventh grade,  and  it was decent.
Like that was the first time I've  felt- I really felt-  I really felt like I  fit in  in a school straight up,  like off the break.
Just like, oh,  this is  all gifted and talented!
Like, the whole damn school.
Um,   and so, I didn't feel like anybody was being left behind,  um, within  the school.
Now whether that was like,  you know, like, oh, all the-  all of these kids are now leaving  everybody else in the DCPS,  that's a whole nother conversation.
Um,  but  being at RD-SCHOOL-6 was the right thing for me.
Um,  and I guess,  at that time, it-  yeah,  fuck it,  it was important that I be out of  my environment  that I was in.
Um,    still was kind of ostracized  cause  I'm the little one.
Um, like I'm fi-  for those who don't  know and haven't seen me,  I'm five three.
Um, I'm actually five two point five but I claim five three as mine.
Um,  for anyone who listens to this in the future.
Um ,    and yeah.
Uh,  that-  it all happened real fast.
Um,    who was my-    how could I ever forget?
It was  Miss  RD-NAME-2-  RD-NAME-1- Miss RD-NAME-2.
Um,  Miss RD-NAME-4.
She had a humanities course  that changed my life.
Um,  she taught humanities  and our course-  uh, our-  our course  book    was actually Takaki's A Different Mirror,  and so her whole class,  instead of taking English that year, we took humanities.
And her whole course was built around  building compassion  for other cultures,  uh, through  learning.
And so we read Takaki's A Different Mirror,  and then  after every chapter,  we would have a project.
So, we would read a poem and then have to,  uh, look at it  from all the different like, cultural,  uh,  viewpoints.
Um, we watched  Soylent Green,  um, and we had to relate that  to the beliefs of Native American culture  or indigenous people's culture,  um,  and how  if we  completely wipe out  all of  Earth's res- resources and don't live by the land,  then we end up having to eat each other in cracker form.
Um,  yeah.
Have you-  Soylent Green is a really good one.
Like, I would- I would definitely see that one.
Um,    it was a bunch of stuff.
It was really,  really good.
Um,  and that's another teacher that had that heart to heart with me.
Um,  it wasn't that I didn't do the work in her class.
She just recognized that like,  there was more to me.
And she pulled me over and was like, RD-NAME-2,  there'll be a time  when everyone thinks you're crazy,  and  in this world,  if you  don't  think that  things-  How did she put it?
Sh- she let me know folks would think that I'm-  that I'm crazy,  but  you have to be crazy to survive in this world  and not think that things are going crazy.
And it's like-  like she-  she really saw  my struggle  to like,  not-  my struggle in being comfortable with me not fitting in.
Um,  yeah.
And by that time, there was a new goth crowd and  like, some of the underclassmen,  um, were more extreme than I was.
And so that was  kind of welcoming.
Um,    yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  high school prom,  graduated.
Oh man, I missed like,  twenty days of  school in senior year  cause that's when I got into shoplifting.
And,  uh, I stole my whole prom outfit,  like-    I didn't-  anytime- something I noticed,  anytime I was shoplifting,  I would get away with stuff that I actually needed.
So if I was stealing clothes,  stealing food,  that would be- those would be things that I would get away with.
Um, the one time I tried to steal a game, I got caught,    and I n- hadn't s- haven't shoplifted aga-  s- ever since.
Um,  so yeah.
Money.
Um, my mother was struggling with money.
Um,  she hadn't always worked at the RD-WORK-7.
Um,  and then,  after she got the job,  like,  there were some cutbacks and furlough and all that stuff  at that time,  and so I wasn't able to get new clothes for school.
Um,  and then so some of it was just trying to keep up with the Joneses and this that and the third.
Um,  but yeah,  like  yeah.
That was also the same time that I found out about RD-WORK-4  and became a peer educator,  and so I started making my own money.
Um,  and then spending that  on  I don't know.
I don't even remember now.
Um,  for real.
There was a young lady    who I thought was flirting with me  um,  at my new school  in junior high- Uh, at uh,  RD-SCHOOL-6,  and  her name was RD-NAME-4.
And I thought she was cute.
I thought she was flirting.
She was like, yo, you should come with me to this spot called Freestyle.
So I went with her,  and lo and behold, she was doing outreach.
And it just like, got me in the door.
Um,  that same day they were doing interviews for peer educators  to use poetry, hip hop, and art  to promote HIV  uh, prevention.
And I interviewed  and I got the gig.
And that's when I realized my  art  could benefit me  um,  and benefit my community.
Um,  and my-  Ah,  this is  perfect segue.
My- uh,  my growth  as a HIV advocate and ev-  educator    is almost  directly parallel with my growth as a performing artist, and uh,  you know,  published  guy  and all that stuff.
Um, they go hand in hand.
And yeah.
Oh!
So  we go  all the way back to elementary school.
Um, fourth grade,  there was a group that came to my school and spoke about,  um,  good touch bad touch.
And at the end of their presentation, they mention  there's this thing  that's gonna be really affecting DC heavily,  um,  in about ten years,  and it's called HIV.
And    we, uh, just wanna let y'all know, like, be safe around,  um, the good touch bad touch, that-  all that.
Alright?
Sixth grade, they came back  and gave the whole HIV one O one  scenario and like,  you know,   uh, the four fluids-  uh, what they recognized as the four fluids at the time.
Um,  sex,  all of that.
Um,  mind you,  I wasn't interested in it at all,  but  based on information that I gained in seventh grade, apparently some of my other classmates were-  um,  were interested in sex.
Uh,  but I was interested in what this thing was that's gonna be like  wiping people out in ten years,  um, within my community.
Cause I was like, dang yo.
Like,  my Uncle RD-NAME-1,  like,   you know,  all-  all my friends.
Like,  f- it's- it-  if it's really this thing, like it's gonna be a big deal.
And so, in junior h- I mean in high school,  excuse me,  uh, when I started hanging out at Freestyle,  uh, the youth center that was ran by RD-WORK-4,  um,  it all came full circle.
Was like, oh,  so  I can  get paid  to share my  art  and travel all over the place  and talk about this HIV thing that has bothered me  since I even heard of it   like, in fourth grade.
And so that was kind of a- a ah ha moment for me.
Um,  yeah.
So I graduated,  stop shoplifting,  um,  oh,  the time that I got caught  and-  uh,  yeah.
The time that I got caught, I didn't have them call my mom.
I had them call my supervisor at RD-WORK-3,  and  she,  uh,  told our executive director, and they drove over.
It was our new ED's first day,   um,  and so he-  he pulls up and he's like, what am I getting myself into?
And, uh,  I was reading Othello,   and , he's like,  what  have I gotten myself into?
Um,  and he was asking me why was I shoplifting.
I'm just like, I need money.
And  he said, well,  I'm gonna go out on a limb  and believe that you are not  this like  crazy shoplifting kid,  that  there is more to you,  and if  you are willing  to  take on the responsibility, I am willing to see what's up  when you graduate.
So  I graduated  in O one,  and  I interviewed  couple months later,  and I got the job.
And the rest is history.
Um,  I've been with-  well-    well,  we're living the history.
Um,  I had been with RD-WORK-4 from two thousand one to two thousand four.
Um, that's when the  infamous Bush cuts came,  um, when everything went abstinence only,  and,  uh, I lost my job then because we didn't have funding.
Um,  I then  went on tour dancing for awhile.
That's a whole nother story.
Um ,  came back  to,  uh, DC  in two thousand five,  joined RD-WORK-3,  um,  and while I was with RD-WORK-3,  I did HIV prevention education and outreach,  um,  in partnership  with RD-WORK-4.
And then when I left  RD-WORK-3,  I joined RD-WORK-6  um, doing water education,  uh,  aquatic education programs at Anacostia Park as a park ranger.
And then  came back to RD-WORK-4 in O eight.
Now,  RD-WORK-4 doesn't exist.
Um, we are a part of-  our programs got  absorbed into RD-WORK-5,  um,  and I am  fighting to keep  our programs  ali-  well,    I won't say alive  because our programs are still going to live.
Um, I'm trying to keep  our core base of youth,  um, and our core target  audience  invested  as things change.
That's the best way to put it.
So- Yeah, I mean like, you know, Uncle RD-NAME-1, he alright.
He be alright.
Like,  you know as far as I know of he doesn't have HIV,  but he be- he be alright.
Um,   he funny.
Why do I care?
Cause somebody got to.
Like, somebody has to.
And  I was-  I told this to my folks at RD-WORK-5  when, um,  I was going for a promotion.
Um,  I was committed to RD-WORK-4  because RD-WORK-4 was committed to me.
Um,  they reached out  and said, look,  you don't have to go to jail.
Like,  this can be  a way for you.
Um,    and  I've been doing that  ever since with the youth that I work with.
Um,  like,  I took my first flight  outside-  I took my first flight period  with RD-WORK-2- uh, with RD-WORK-4 um, when we flew to Denver,  um,  for a conference.
I took  a young man  on his first flight ever.
Um, I flew him-  I flew with him out to  San Francisco for a conference where he spoke  and knocked the audience  alive, you know?
Um,  and so  those type of parallels are what I really live for.
Um,  maybe it's something that was in me- instilled in me from like, church, and  having that sense of like, oh,  good deeds are what you should do.
Um,  maybe it's the fact that I've received so many services  over time.
Um,  maybe  it was  Miss RD-NAME-2 stopping and talking to me about,  you know,  l-  having this-  having school be a means to an end so I can be free.
Um, maybe it was  Miss RD-NAME-1-  Miss RD-NAME-2's class,  you know, having compassion for all people,  um,  but  there's-  there's al- I feel like there's always been something that's drawn me  to  helping others.
Even though  I personally  don't like being around a lot of people ,  I don't want to see anybody hurt  cause I've seen hurt,  and I know how hurt feels.
Yeah.
Like,  there's so much hurt, and I d- wanna- I just wanna be  part of  the not hurt.
Whatever the opposite of not hurt.
Or whatever the opposite of hurt is,  um, the part of the healing,  and- and if you're not in a process of healing,  part of your well being,  your ongoing well being.
So, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Speaking of, I'm like, is it still in my lap?
Did I-  Okay.
Okay .
Hm.
Oh gosh.
This story.
Uh,  thank you.
Um,    where did it start?
Um,  so  the earliest would be dance.
Um,    I was the kid in the ballet class   I was the boy in the ballet class  in elementary school,  and like, they made these  super glittery shirts.
And all the girls were wearing tutus, and they were trying to get us to wear tights.
And I was just like,  nah.
Like-   like no.
Um,  but  I'd al- I've- I love motion.
Um,  I love-  like I love dance  because I personally feel  that's the most intimate  you can be physically with somebody  that's not like, sexual.
It can be-  it can be sexual,  but it's not sex.
Um, and so  I've always felt that connection with motion,  um, and you can convey a lot of things with motion that  sometimes you can't convey with words.
Um, and body language is  a major  you know-  words.
Ha.
Um,  body lang- cause  you can't see ha on there.
Um ,  body language  is  one of the major ways that people communicate.
And so  dance  is an extension of that.
Um, and I've always loved to dance.
I've always loved to move.
Michael Jackson was one of my  heroes.
Like I had a freaking-  I had the- the  Thriller jacket and the Bad jacket.
Like they're-  they're two different jackets,  and folks like to pretend like they're the same.
No.
They're two  very different jackets.
Uh, one is more black.
One is more red.
And I had both  as a kid,  and I-  I looked up to him a lot.
Um,  and  still to this day,  when I think of people  who I consider musical geniuses,  um,  if you have worked with  Michael Jackson  or Bjork,  um,  you may automatically get a pass  into my musical  genius patheon.
Um,  but Michael Jackson like, epitomized dance,  and  I- like I've been tryna pop lock and moon walk and break dance and all that,  um, from that  very young age.
Um,    another thing that spawned from  my RD-WORK-4 connection  was becoming a break dancer.
Um,    at the time,  RD-WORK-4 and the Freestyle youth center  was geared around using hip hop,  uh,  to spread HIV  information.
And so  they would have like, a small seminar and then a break dancing workshop  or a small seminar and then a capoeira workshop,  which worked  well for-  for both, um,  my self defense and,  uh, my break dancing.
So  I-  I started studying  both of those styles,  and  I picked it up.
And,  um,  my big break in dance  was,  uh,  there was open mic.
This is like,  two thousand  s-  five, two thousand six.
Um,  no.
Two thousand four, two thousand five.
Um,  there was a place  called Urban Energy.
Started in two thousand three,  fall of two thousand three,  and then, um,  they closed  in like,  two thousand-  the end of two thousand five.
Um,  they would have reiki and acupuncture and all k-  like, healing workshops,  and then, have worksho- like, uh, open mics and stuff like that.
Um,  and then massage courses and  all kinds of stuff.
So  I would  go to the open mic,  and there open mic ran from six PM  to six AM,  from s- that Saturday into that Sunday.
And so,  um, let me know if we're taking- if I'm taking up too much time, too.
Um, okay.
Uh, we would do  the spoken word,  and then  like all go grab something to eat together  and then we would come back  and do some more spoken word.
Then we would put on The Matrix  and then like, wake up  and  talk about The Matrix or something like that.
Like that's- that was that type of environment.
And  I would break dance  on carpet  at that space,  um,  depending on what was going on.
So  they invited KRS One to come and do a  metaphysics lecture,  um, and he came.
And to intro him,  they had folks representing  the four core elements and then the- uh,  the four auxiliary elements of hip hop.
And I was the one representing break dancing,  and KRS One liked what he saw,    and brought me on  to go on t-  so    how-  oh, to go on tour.
So,  how serendipitous this was,  um,  that  there was a- uh, what was it?
I got  an-  a phone call  on Saturday  asking me  did I wanna go on the tour?
I said, yes,  but I have a job,  and I can't like, just up and leave.
Right?
That  Monday,  I got word that  the organization would have to let me go because of money issues.
That Wednesday I was on a train headed to LA.
It's like  everything happened  for a reason.
Um,  and that in its-  that train ride on its own was a different experience because that was supposed to only take  three days,    uh, but it ended up taking  five days.
And so I missed my first gig in LA  and missed the tour bus,  and so I had to  rely on some friends who I knew  in LA  who I hadn't talked to in two years,  um,  who I met at a conference through RD-WORK-4.
It all c-  it's-  all works together.
It all comes full circle.
Um,  I hadn't talked to them  in awhile.
They worked for a non profit  doing HIV prevention for the Asian American Pacific Islander community in LA.
They came and picked me up,  and then drove me from LA to Lake Tahoe,  um, overnight.
So  yeah.
From then,  got on tour,  and I'm break dancing.
Um,  we did Reno, Lake Tahoe,  Santa  Clara,  um, San Francisco,  Sacramento,    few other gigs mixed in there.
Um,  but I  ended up  having to come back home,  um,  and I left after the Vegas show  because my mom had a cancer scare.
And so  left after the-  after the Vegas show  and headed back to DC,  took a bus from Vegas back to DC.
So yeah.
Dance.
Um , I still dance every now and then.
Um,  I might be dancing in a- a friend of mine's music video that's coming up.
Um, but  I let the-  the younger  folks  get all the break dance now.
Like, I'm- my knees hurt.
Like -  like I- I c-  I- I'll still crush a youngin.
I've only lost  two battles in my-  my whole  time.
But  yeah.
That's that.
That's dance.
Um,  crochet,  that's a fun story.
I met a young lady  actually  through another young lady that I was trying to date,  um,  and  she  did latch hook.
And so she would do latch hook, and she would just-  she would go to Walmart,  buy a latch hook kit,  and just like  do her latch hook.
She'd be in the latch hook zone,  and I'm just sitting here like,  okay,  alright.
Well, uh-  and  so the way that-  like I could be sitting here, I could be crocheting and we'll talk,  this that and the third.
Her latch hook, she's  not talking at all.
She's just  doing her.
And I'm like, well why'd you call me over here then?
Like, like, we not gonna talk?
We not gonna chat?
Like,  nothing?
Okay.
Cool.
Latch hook away.
But  I figured  if-  if she gonna latch hook,  then I'm gonna need to pick up a craft.
So I wanted to pick up knitting,  but  they didn't have any knitting kits, like, any, uh,  like, 'my first knit'  sort of kit,  um, available,  but they had  the crochet joint.
Right?
And I was like,  bet  I'm about to go ahead and get this crochet kit.
This was two thousand four.
Um ,  I was like I'm'a go ahead and get this crochet kit,  and it was-  it- the kit was called, uh,  'I taught myself how to crochet'    and it came with, um,  about  seven crochet hooks.
And  I sat there, and I practiced,  and when she would latch hook, I would crochet and  make it happen.
Um,  then the relationship turned sour,  um,  so she fell off but  the crochet stuck around.
The lesson I learned from that  is that you learn something from every relationship.
And, uh, I- I-  yeah.
The r-  the rest is history.
Woo!
Started writing poetry-  so we go even further back.
Um, before  n- before  elementary.
I remember having composition books  at like three,  and just scribbling in them.
You know, I just- writing all this nonsense.
And  I knew for me,  they were letters to my father.
And  I  t-  you know like,  you would look at 'em and see like scribble scrabble, but to me  I knew I was writing to my dad.
Cause I hadn't seen him,  and I was like,  why am I not seeing you?
Like,  What's going on?
Um,  so I feel like I've wanted to write  all my life,  um, at least since that,  uh, early experience.
Um,  yeah.
Me and my dad  have had a on and off relationship,  and I'll get back to writing  after  this tangent.
Um ,  me and my dad had an on and off relationship.
He left  when I was three.
Um,  he came back  when I was twelve.
Um,  I left him,  uh, sorta.
Like,    so  my mom  was talking to me-  like he was on the phone,  and  he had to cancel on picking me up to go to a movie or something like that.
And  I said to my mom  like,    it's alright.
I was just going for the money anyway, right?
And she repeated it to him,  and  he  was like, well damn.
And like,  I hadn't heard from him  like, after that.
And  I felt like  that was  betrayal from my mom,  but that was also on me too.
Like,  I didn't really mean that.
Um, I was just frustrated cause he was canceling on me.
Um,  and  while  a younger me would have said, damn, Like, he overreacted.
Like,  it's not like blah blah blah blah,  but now,  as a father,  um,  who's not with his mom-  not with the mother of his child,  um,  if RD-NAME-3  was to be like,    I was just going for blah blah blah, I would be hurt too.
And so  I get that.
Um,  yeah.
Uh, he-  we ran into each other  when  I was sixteen.
I was on the train,  and I was with  RD-NAME-1 and a group of our friends, um,  the- the gay crowd,  as- uh, as, uh,  folks would like to say.
And  my dad ,  he's looking at me,  and I realize it's him, and I'm like, oh shit.
That's my father.
Right?
And so I go over, and I start talking to him.
He's like, if there's any- ever anything, you know, you need to tell me, like, you know, it's okay.
I was like, oh, it's all good.
Blah blah blah.
And then like I go back over, and I'm chilling with the homies,  and then I realize, oh shit.
Like my dad was just saying he was okay with me being gay if I was.
And I was like, that's what's up.
Like,   you know, that's not the type of thing that  you would expect from your estranged father-  father  that you haven't heard from in years.
You know,  so that was kind of cool.
Um, I helped him move  and then  we both kind of existed in our different worlds  knowing that we were okay with each other.
Um,  then for- la- a-  after I turned twenty-one,  I had just been thinking to myself, damn I would really like to have a beer with my dad,  just to like,  you know,  be like, look,  shit is all good, like,  you know, there was never any issue.
Um,    but last year he had a stroke,  and I went  to the hospital when he was in the hospital,  and he hadn't talked to anybody else,  like he didn't  like say any words  to anybody else, and they thought that he couldn't talk anymore.
Um, but I walked in the door,  he started crying,  and I was like, I love you Dad, and he was like, I love you too.
And everybody was like, oh snap!
And like,  I was like, yeah.
Um, and so  we- we talk every now and then.
Um,  he let me know the reason why he doesn't talk as much.
And it's  yeah.
So    the-  his wife  and his three daughters  are  all  a lot  like his-  the mother,  like,  uh, his wife.
And so  they're-  they're all hyper talkative  and  don't wanna let him have a say in the scenario.
Like,  they're-  he's not a-  I would say-  I don't wanna say he's a beta male,  but like,  he's not one to be like,  rah!
and this that and the third and angry and like, all that like,  machismo.
Like he's-  he's very similar to me  though I wouldn't say that I'm a beta either.
Um,  I'm  definitely  alpha male,  but I am a quiet leader.
Um,  and that's a-  there's a  big difference between being a beta and a follower  and  being like a quiet leader.
I think my dad is closer to that.
Um,    but they're all alpha.
Like,  all of the women in that household are like,  yeah!
And you should be doing this  and  da da da da da!
And like, I walk in,  and I be like, look,  sis,  sis,  sis,  chill.
You,  respect to you.
Boom boom boom.
But    I'm out.
Like- like-  like it's just like,  you know, like there was a time where my  younger sister who is the eldest of the three  um,    she was like, saying something about  how- Well,  like she  Facebook messaged the mother of my child,  this  all kinds of  disrespectful stuff,  and I was like, that's not your place.
Like,  what are you doing?
Like, no, that is not-  not okay.
Um,  and so  that's the type of household that he's in, and that's why he's not talking as much.
Um, and he talks to me.
It's interesting.
It's all weird.
Um,  but yeah.
So  I said  all of that,  coming back to the poetry.
Um,  so  I had always been interested in writing,    um, and I always had this passion in writing.
And  in ninth grade,    um,  that's when I got like,  you know,  the emo,  nobody ever likes me, and  I don't know who has a crush on me, and so I'm writing poems about it,  and I'm depressed,  and blah blah blah  blah.
And I don't understand who I am!
Um,  and so that's when I became a poet.
Um,  and that sort of got more refined,  uh, throughout high school.
It was still very dark and  brooding and  angsty  teenage poetry,  but it was poetry none the less.
Um,    it would be  two thousand one  that  I start really hitting my-  my stride as the HIV education performer.
Um,  I was  part of a group  of youth  chosen by Advocates For Youth  to go  speak  at the UN.
And while I was in New York for the UN session,  um- Well,  that was supposed to happen September fourteenth, two thousand one.
We know what happened that week.
Um, so  we ended up going up,  um, in two thousand two,  um,  and  yeah.
While I was up there,  I bought my first pair of raver pants,  and I hit a open mic.
And I was like, this is amazing!
Um,  this guy, RD-NAME-3,  um, who  ended up moving to New York,  um,  he was a student at  University of Maryland Col-  Maryland, College Park,  and he told me about another open mic  um,  that was happening up there.
So  I joined him for that open mic,  and  I  ended up meeting this guy,  Droopy the Broke  Baller.
Wait.
Let's go back.
Um,  I- uh,  with RD-WORK-4,  I performed at Howard University's homecoming,  um, for one of their campus pals events.
And  I did-  one of the b-  like, I walk out on stage,  and  when I had like, low hair,  uh, they all thought I looked like Prodigy from Mobb Deep.
And so I came out, they were like, oh shit, it's Prodigy!
And I did a poem,  and everybody was like, oh that was tight.
And then immediately following me,  this guy, uh, RD-NAME-4 got up and did a poem.
And  it was called, The Surrogate Boyfriend.
And it was  all of the feelings that I had around like,  being that best guy friend,  all that stuff.
And I was like,  yo!
That is my life!
Right?
Um,  fast forward  two years later-  Who is messaging me?
I'm sorry.
Um, fast forward two years later,  and  I'm at that open mic in College Park,  and  the feature happens to be  that guy,  RD-NAME-4.
And I w- he w-  like, he- I didn't recognize him,  but as soon  as, uh, he got up there,  he was like, yo, I'm'a do this poem.
I'm'a dedicate it to the brother in the back.
Blah blah blah.
And he did it,  and I was like,   oh snap!
This is the guy that I been telling everybody about.
Blah blah blah blah, right?
So,  and it was  like-  and now realizing he remembered me.
And like what about  me  made him remember me,  um, in that situation?
It was like, wow, like, you're the star of the show, and you remember little RD-NAME-2 from  Howard.
Um,    so  fast forward.
Um,  he ends up,  at the  end of  two thousand two,  hosting that same open mic  in Brookland, um, in DC.
And I become a regular.
And so like, I'm always there,  whenever he's running late, I'm-  I start  the hosting and doing the open mic.
Um,  and we made it official.
I became a cohost  in two thousand four  when the venue moved from Brookland  to,  uh,    U Street.
Um, this spot called Mocha Hut.
Mocha Hut is when  a lot of folks found out about Spit That.
Um,  Spit That is now recognized as the longest running open mic in DC.
Um,  we got like, a mayor's commendation and all that stuff for that.
So  that's pretty cool.
Um,  and we still host it to this day,  um, every Thursday.
RD-NAME-1 actually was at my office earlier today, printing out stuff,  um, cause we're both make-  doing submissions so that we can- uh,  we can  get this-  this book money.
What time today?
Or what time- Oh!
Oh, well Mocha Hut doesn't exist anymore.
Um,  we are now  at  seven thirty three Euclid Street.
Um, it's the ECAC,  the Emergence Community Arts Collective,  um, right near Howard University,  across the street from Banneker High School.
And, uh,  that starts at nine o'clock,  ends  whenever we get through all twenty plus names,  uh, that are on our open mic list.