January fourteenth, nineteen sixty one.
Washington DC.
Southeast Washington.
Hillcrest.
Mm,  uh, that would be excluding- Only-  The only time that I lived  elsewhere was when I was in college and law school.
So  um, That would be- Well  uh, only- I went away to college really for like a semester so,  uh,  let me see.
I was away maybe a total of five years so  I-  I don't know.
God, what?
Forty years?
Maybe forty years, I've lived?
I'm not really doing the math well, but.
Boston and New Orleans.
Um,  I went to  um-  Part of the-  My high school years were at  um,  RD-SCHOOL-4.
Um, I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-4.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-6 in Boston  and transferred to RD-SCHOOL-9.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-9.
I'm an attorney.
My father was born in  Raleigh, North Carolina.
My mother was born  in- I think it was Camden, Alabama.
My father is deceased.
He was an attorney.
My mother was  a  librarian.
She's still living.
My neighborhood was a-  I'd say middle class to upper middle class neighborhood,  um,  in  the midst of  um,  I wanna say  lower class mei-  lower class neighborhoods.
But  it was not like they were today.
Neighborhoods- When you think of  uh, upper middle class neighborhoods today-  Well first of all, it was all black, except for um-    There were a few  white people in the neighborhood left  from white flight.
Because when the blacks started moving in, the whites started moving out.
Um, except for my father told me this,  um-  The only whites that basically stayed-  The majority of the whites that stayed were  um, whites that did not have  children, particularly girls  because they did not want  um,  white-  Whites  did not want their girls to be around  black guys.
That was my father's  uh,  explanation.
And  as I looked around the neighborhood, I did notice that there were-  There were a lot of older white people.
So  they might have- And they didn't s-  I didn't know of any of 'em  to have kids.
Maybe one  family.
Um,  so maybe they felt like they were too old to leave.
You know, I don't know.
But they were like scattered around.
But  the majority of the neighborhood was definitely-  They were definitely  African Americans.
There weren't  Hispanics.
There weren't  Indians.
There weren't Asians.
Completely African American.
The whole H- all of Hillcrest?
I'm not good with  that type of thing.
Um,  it was a pretty big neighborhood.
I mean, you know.
It was a-  I-  Will say- it was a- it was a big area.
You know.
I- I hesitate to call it a-  You know, I consider my neighborhood like, the people that I knew  which was like,  um,  maybe,  um,  you know, that was just a-  maybe about ten block  radius.
Like,  you know, the people I got to knew- know from  playing.
You know, you didn't go too far-  stray too far from your neighborhood to play.
And then you know, maybe people who th-  that I met  at church-  people I met at my elementary school,  which was a neighborhood elementary school.
And um,  I guess that was it.
You know, like the Girl Scouts and stuff like that.
Um- Well I'm- Well that includes the people that  I m-  met.
But the people that I knew  well well well were like- except when I- because what happened in my neighborhood was  the sch-  the-  the people-  You know.
Because we were like, a little oasis,  so to speak,  in Southeast,  the schools  were not the-  the-  the parents in my neighborhood were not  pleased with the schools.
So they either- after a certain point,  we either got-  they either sent us to private schools- most of us went to private schools,  or they  bussed us to- or we went to- and when I say bussed, I don't mean like,  you know,  really bussed.
I mean like we would catch- we would have to catch a bus,  get on the bus and go,  you know, or- or we would go to,  um,  schools in different- in a better  part of town, but mainly pe- people were going to private schools.
You know that was  mainly m-  most of my friends were going to private schools.
You know,  um, I did notice that  um-  so we had-  And this is what I'm saying we don't really see too much today,  we had  um,  like I lived next to a cab-  I ha- on one side of me-  my father was an attorney.
My mother was a, um,  We had doctors, lawyers,  um, we had blue collar workers.
Um,  you know, like,  my-  my  neigh- the-  the neighbor to  uh-  to my left was a cab driver.
And  his wife doesn't- didn't work.
Neighbor to my-  to my right,  he was an-  he was either an engineer or an architect,  but he was highly,  you know,  educated.
And it was mixed like that throughout the neighborhood.
You had some  you know,  bus drivers, cab drivers, lawyers,  you know.
Four blocks up  was  newer-  You know,  both  uh,  parents were doctors.
The mother was a pediatrician.
The father was a neurosurgeon, like one of the most  um, highly  you know,  um,  thought of neurosurgeons at Howard-  at Howard's Hospital.
You know, and I think they lived next do-  door to a um,  your blue collar worker.
So that's just the way- and part of that probably, I'm sure had to do with the fact that all black people had to live  you know,  in the same neighborhood.
So it wasn't that socioeconomic  um,  separation that they have now, because we were like,  you know, kind of forced to live together.
Cause I think all hard working people  could live  well.
No matter what they did.
And my father actually-  Uh, my mother w- There was another neighborhood here in DC that was a black  upper middle class to upper-  upper class neighborhood,  which was-  that we called the Gold Coast,  which is-  which was on Sixth-  in the Sixth-  off of Sixteenth Street,  which were primarily- Now,  I don't know if they're- I would  pro- I would-  Because I ended up going to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And  that was the area for  that.
I mean that was part of their  area, so I met a lot of those  black kids  that grew up  on- in the Gold Coast.
And I  would-  I would guess that,  without knowing-  Cause I certainly didn't- The kids that I met up there,  none of their parent-  All of their parents were  you know,  doctors, lawyers,  college professors.
I mean they were all professional-  uh, white collar  professionals.
So  m- And my father made a conscious decision-  Because my mother wanted to live up there.
That's where she wanted to live.
My father did not want to live up there.
He didn't want-  He didn't want  us growing up  in that kind of bubble.
So  um,  and I th- I'm sure those houses were mo-  I don't know.
They might have been the same price.
I don't know.
It's hard to say back then.
Cause everything was so much more affordable, you know?
But um,  and that's just my take on it.
I-  And you know, I can just say that  because I went  to the high school, and I met all of those black kids up there.
And I don't know any of them that- whose parents were just  regular, you know, blue collar workers or whatever whatever.
They were all  like,  somebody.
You know, white collars  types.
You know.
So that might have been very unique to our neighborhood,  but I would doubt it.
The only reason I could think is that  if you go over to the neighborhood, you can see the difference in the houses.
I mean,  they are- And I'm sure- I know white people are trying to get those houses now.
I mean they look like the houses on Sixteenth Street.
Um, I think they even-  I don't know what they call- I think they called it the G- They called it a whole bunch of stuff.
Like, the Gold Coast of Southeast.
I mean, you know, all- m-  Whenever I told somebody that I was from Southeast,  and then I would say I was from Hillcrest,  they'd be like, Oh that's not Southeast.
And I was like, Yeah.
It is in Southeast.
And um,  that's the only thing that I could think because there-  there were  big houses.
All the houses looked  different.
You know, they had big yards.
You know,  um,  that's the only reason that I could think, and I can't think of any other  area of Southeast- And I have to say,  I-  You know, because I went to school uptown and all that stuff,  I really didn't  get to know  a lot of the neighborhoods.
I didn't hang out- I mean you know, there was some-  there was some class  issues going on.
You know, so I didn't really get to know- Like I- Like I don't know- I don't know this area even though I didn't- I grew up not that far from here.
You know, I don't really know my way around in- in this area.
And there parts of Southeast that I've never been to.
You know?
So  um-   Um,  you know, everything's relative.
A lot of people thought it was a big house.
I mean it was- It was a big  Tudor style house.
Um,  ver- a lot of  nice  architect-  tecture-  texture.
Um,  you know, huge yard.
I mean really big yard.
And I'm not real good with  you know, measuring or whatever.
Sat up on a hill,  a big hill,  um,  had a lot of character to it.
Um,  you know, had a  big  living room, a big  dining room, a big kitchen before there were a lot of um,  big kitchens.
Nice basement.
Um,  three-  three bedrooms,  big attic.
Had one- just one bathroom.
We all shared a bathroom.
Um,  and all the houses were different.
There were no h-  no house-  There was no-  I mean,  no single house was exactly  like the other house.
I mean even in some of the other areas like Brookland- I don't know if you're familiar with Brookland, where Catholic is?
And I- When I first got married, I lived in a house,  like a colonial style house there,  which by the way, now  is going for  seven hundred thousand dollars,  and it's a little house.
Um, to me it was a little house,  compared to the house that I grew up in.
And  those houses,  they're cookie cutter.
You know, but then that- that is also another neighborhood  that was a-  uh-  that-  and-  Well actually, that's not- that wasn't Brookland.
It was Michigan Park, which is right next to Brookland.
Um,  that's another  upper middle class black neighborhood too.
I mean-  I'm sorry.
Upper middle cl- Yeah, upper middle class,  I would say.
Middle class to upper middle class black neighborhood, which- When I was growing up w- it was.
Now, it's gentrifying, like everything else.
You see m- almost more white people over there than you-  than you see- saw black people-  see black people.
And that's why the- the hous- pricing-  the housing prices have gone up  is what I'm saying.
I mean that was a little-  I mean,  you know, those houses are    you know.
And even the school systems haven't caught up with those neighborhoods,  I wouldn't- I wouldn't  stink.
You know.
Um- I think so.
I don't think that people have gotten across the bridge quite as much  because it is across the bridge.
But give 'em time.
You know.
No I have two brothers.
I'm the middle.
We were all two years apart.
Mm-hm.
We played together in the house.
We fought a lot.
But see the kid- There were lots of kids in that neighborhood, which is totally different than the way my-  my daughter is growing up  because  um,  you know, first of all, I was a si- I'm a single-  I was a single  parent.
And  also it's just,  you know, I couldn't afford to live  the- a lot of the places that I wanted to live.
And then she-  I definitely sent her to schools, I-  You know,  she never-  she-  her-  Only for one moment did she go to a school  in the neighborhood we lived in, and that's only because I moved  to the neighborhood to get her into the school.
I moved  to a-  an apartment  to get her into the school, and then  I bought a house .
So, th- and that was the only time in her life that she- And that was a short span of her life, she was very young- that she lived in  a neighborhood where she went to school.
So  I had  a-  I grew up in a very  robust  neighborhood, with children, lots of children.
And  we um,    played outside a lot, and as  you probably heard from older people,  we could go outside and play forever  until it was dark.
I mean that stuff about the-  the um-  What do you call it?
The night light?
The um,    playing until the-  til the-  the-  the lights  came on was true.
Our parents didn't know where we were.
We didn't have cell phones.
You know?
They couldn't- But  they let us go.
I mean we would go all over the place and do whatever we wanted until it was time to come home.
And there were  oh, t- tons of us.
You know, and we would just all go and play.
And my b-  You know, so I had my girlfriends, and my brothers had their friends, but  the times we were stuck in the house,    we would um-  we would play together.
And we, you know-  I- I  you know,  pretty much grew up like a boy because I had two brothers.
So I basically had to do the types of things that they did.
And if I didn't, then they would tease me,  you know, and say I was a sissy  or something like that,  so.
But we fought a lot too.
We did a lot of fighting.
Yeah.
We had TV.
I'm not that- I'm not that- I'm not that old.
Um, I think that we-  Oh, God.
I'm sure at some point-  Whatever-  Whenever it was, I'm s-  I'm sure that I-  It started out being black and white, and then at some point, we got color.
But  um,  yeah we had TV.
But we only had-  What?
F-  Three channels?
ABC, NBC, and CBS.
And we didn't have remotes.
We were the remote.
We had to get up and turn it.
And um,    you know, we-  There were only a few shows  um, that we could watch.
And then TV went off at a certain time,  like around- I don't know, midnight?
I don't know.
It was long before we went to bed- long after we went to bed,  so.
Yeah.
I went to the neighborhood elementary school,  which was called RD-SCHOOL-2 until the fifth-  until the  I guess it was the fifth grade.
And then my parents- And then we went to  um-  Then my parents  sent us to RD-SCHOOL-4.
It was a culture shock.
There were no black kids t- I mean that's one of the k- that- If  you don't know, that's one of the sc-  one of the three schools that the Obamas looked at when they came here.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
There's RD-SCHOOL-2,  and where they ended up is RD-SCHOOL-2.
Well RD-SCHOOL-3 was all black  with all-  mainly all black teachers.
RD-SCHOOL-3 was all white  pretty much.
And Jewish  because it was started by a Jewish-  I don't know which Jewish school.
Cause we had to celebrate Jewish holidays.
We didn't even celebrate Christian holidays.
We celebrated Jewish holidays.
And um,  so we had  rich kids.
Rich white kids.
Jewish.
And  a handful of black kids in each class.
Maybe  uh four of us.
I don't know.
Five per class, something like that.
And then we had  um-    And of course the black kids were not-  There were some-  That were some black kids that  were  prominent.
You know, when you're a kid, you don't really know that stuff, but then when you get older, you start hearing you know,  this is da- da- da-  I mean the people that I can remember that went there- I don't know if you remember Al Gore?
He was  vice president to  Carter?
No.
No, it wasn't- I'm get- I get Al Gore mixed up with-   This guy was Carter's  vice president.
I don't know why I get them two mixed up, and I can't remember his name because uh, he-  I wanna say Mondale.
You wouldn't remember.
But Mondale- I think it was Mondale.
Yeah, and then he ran for president.
His  d- daughter went-  His kids went there, and then you had um-  There was this guy name- And the only reason I know this was because uh-    There was this guy named RD-NAME-6.
He was the fir- Anyway,  his daughter, RD-NAME-2-  Well, they don't call her RD-NAME-2.
Her name is RD-NAME-4.
She wrote p-  She read  um,  the poem at Obama's inauguration.
Okay.
So she went there,  but her dad was  um-    He was something like the first  black  secretary of the-  You know, he was like in some  presidential cam-  uh, cabinet.
So it was some black kids like that  that were there.
But then you had  some black kids who were- Like I-  Like one of my friends, one of my best friends,  and then you had some black kids whose parents were  like my parents, you know.
They were  lawyers,  um,    and then you had  um-  You know Ben's Chili Bowl?
Okay, the guy- So,  uh,  RD-NAME-4-  RD-NAME-2,  the family that  ran that,  they went there.
And then you had  um- But then you had like,  some black kids that were probably on- You know, you-  you don't have any way of knowing this, but they probably got  some  scholarship,  and they mighta been really smart.
But there parents weren't,  you know-  Cause o- I had one girlfriend of mine, who was like, one of my best friends,  she lived in the pro- what we call the projects  at the time.
So-  But you know,  because we were all black,  and it was back in the seventies,  you know, we-  we ho-  we stayed together.
So I stayed there  two-  through  um-  I wanna say ninth grade.
Either ninth or tenth,  something like that.
And I just- You know, I didn't get any attention from any boys.
You know,  there was some racists, and my- For  Ironically, my daughter had the same experience.
That's one reason why she's ended up RD-SCHOOL-2.
But um,  the- You know,  there was racism.
Um- I guess you would- It depends on how you define that.
I mean,  I- I w- I defined it as  um,  the-  that-  I mean there were a couple of things that happened.
I mean,  you know, nobody called you the N word,  at least not to your face.
So  you know, if you consider that to be overt, no, it wasn't overt.
But I do remember  one time,  that- But th- it was hurtful stuff  because I remember one time  that  everybody-  Well it wouldn't have been everybody, but I didn't get invited to a  w-  You know, the Jews have  bar mitzvahs and  bat mitzvahs,  which is like their  coming of age-  You know,  like um-  It would be like our- Like,  Hispanics have Qui- Quinceaneras, or something like that.
And what do black people have ?
Cotillions, but  it's not tied to religion.
Like,  maybe for us it would be um- Well I'm- I was  raised episcopal, so I had um-   I mean but  w-  Whenever we did that anyway-  You know, these people had big parties to go along with this.
So it was cultural.
I don't know what the Hispanics-  There was  religious-  It might just be cultural.
The- the- the bat mitzvah and the bar mitzvah's cultural  and religious.
So anyway, they would have that, but you know they were rich and they threw-  It- it- They used to throw,  I mean,  huge  things.
Huge things.
You know, at um,  country clubs and  wherever else  they would have 'em.
It was a big thing.
And so I remember one time not getting invited to that.
And I kn- And my best friend was Jewish,  and she got invited.
But she was different kind of Jewish because  she lived on Capitol Hill,  both her parents were lawyers,  but they were civil rights lawyers.
So,  you know, they were more progressive type.
And actually  they knew my father because my father  was  civil rights.
So-  You know what I mean?
So it was a different- She wasn't as elitist.
And then we had to catch the bus together because she lived  on Capitol Hill  in Southeast, and then I lived- But- And she lived in Southeast,  but it was Capitol Hill.
And Capitol Hill is of course, booming.
Even back then it was pretty.
I don't know, but Capitol Hill was weird.
But-  You know, and I used to have to go across the bridge,  so we  you know, got  c-  rode the bus together.
And it was her and me and also the w- the g- woman who grew up  in the projects.
Cause she  lives in Southwest,  so we all got to be really c- And she just was different.
She wasn't-  You know, you could tell.
She didn't have-  You know, I don't know whether her parents insti- instilled-  You know, cause her father was-  Not only was he civil rights, he worked for Legal Aid.
So he worked for-  He headed the  legal-  I can't remember what it was.
And the m- and her mother was a-  was a professor.
But you know, they were progressive.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah, she went to the um-  As a matter of fact, I think that's how I found out because she slipped up, and s- Well she didn't slip up,  she thought that I had been invited.
She'd assumed that I had been invited.
Because I did get invited  to some of 'em but this particular one I did not get invited to.
And I know  it had to have been because I wasn't-  I mean,  I- I- I-  I've-  My take on it was it was because I was black and not Jewish.
You know that was my take on it.
But it could have been something else,  but that was my interpretation.
You know.
So that  and  m- I had my first major crush  on a white guy.
And he didn't give me the time of day.
Didn't look my way.
This was in middle school right when I was starting to get,  you know-  like boys and stuff like that.
Like in pubert- puberty or whatever.
So  um,  it was a combination of that  and  um,  I think  uh-  You know, maybe something happened in our family where my parents couldn't afford it anymore.
You know?
Um, I don't really-  I'm  not-  I can't even remember what the stor-  you know, the story on that was.
But  I know I wasn't that unhappy about it.
Because RD-SCHOOL-2 was like- Shoot.
That was the place to be.
I mean, you know,  to me.
And  it was definitely  a turning point for me  going there.
Oh my God.
It was just-  It was a total- Well, f- A little bit it was a culture shock at first  because  um,  I wasn't used to being around all them black people.
And the thing about RD-SCHOOL-2 was that  it was  totally mixed,  totally mixed.
It was like the-  the  ultimate melting pot.
And it was  unlike any high school- And it was a huge high school- Unlike,  any high school in the city.
Um,  I mean, you had probably about a equal number of blacks.
You had  um,  Hispanics because you had Columbia Heights kids,  which was Hispanic.
And then you had- And they were from-  You know, they were from a mix of countries, even though they were all Hispanic, they were a mix- Except they weren't Puerto Ricans.
W- I didn't know any Puerto Ricans.
But they were South American-  From South American countries most- mainly.
And then you had  um,  blacks from  other-  Like,  maybe West- West Indians?
And then you had  whites  from  that-  up in that area,  from  up in that area where the school was.
And then you had- And then you had socioeconomic diversity because you had- And this- They're getting rid of this now which is very up-  upsetting to me-   You had-  They bussed in  kids from Southwest, who at the time  were  mainly from  um- I keep saying the projects, and I know they don't call 'em the projects anymore.
Low income housing.
And they were all black low income kids.
So you had all of this mix  in that school  which was a  you know,  but they di-  But we didn't mix.
It's just like wh- What do they say?
All- Why'd all the black kids sit in the classroom?
For the most part we didn't mix.
It was by race,  and with- in the blacks, it was socioeconomic.
Some did- You know, there was a little mixing.
Like I had one girlfriend who was black, and she  ended up marrying  this guy who was Hispanic.
And he didn't hardly ev- speak any English.
But they got married.
They dated,  and then they got married.
But she almost looked s-  You know, she almost didn't look like she was black,  so.
And he came from low income,  Hispanic,  and she was upper middle class black.
So there was some mixing,  li- little,  but overall,  I don't think there was a lot of mixing.
Well you know, we had it in the classroom, but see I- What I came from?
That school was easy to me.
That was another good thing  about coming from a rigorous private school.
I mean I went into that school,  and it was just easy.
It was easy.
And I did really really well.
I mean I did well  in-  at RD-SCHOOL-3,  but I-  I mean I did just as well as the rest of those kids  but I um-  I-  I feel like I worked harder to do well.
And when I got to RD-SCHOOL-2,  I didn't have to work as hard.
And I could tell the difference  in the  um-  I mean I could just tell the difference.
And another thing is that I- when I got As, I didn't want anybody to know it.
I remember one time I got like-  I don't know.
I got maybe-  I probably got all As.
And um-  Because it-  it didn't seem like it was cool.
I don't know where- where I got that from  because  you know,  even the black kids that I  I hung out with, they were high achieving.
So I don't know where I got that from.
I mean, it certainly wasn't like,  uh,  RD-SCHOOL-3 where  um-  I don't know.
It just seemed different to me.
I mean there was so much else going on there first of all.
It was so much socializing.
Mm.
So many clubs and  you know, homecoming and  all of that stuff.
Parties, and what do you call it-  uh, dances and  all of that stuff.
I was alright with- Oh yeah.
I definitely got involved in that.
Oh I loved to- I liked to-  I went to the pro- Oh, well first of all, the whole world-  I mean,  there were a lot of-  I had never seen- When I first went there,   I guess this is sort of like the difference between going to RD-SCHOOL-2 and going to RD-SCHOOL-2.
If you've ever walked up on RD-SCHOOL-2's campus?
Versus RD-SCHOOL-2's campus- cause I went to RD-SCHOOL-4.
So I know the difference between RD-SCHOOL-4 and RD-SCHOOL-2  when you go and look at the black people.
They were all-  they just seemed- they were all really attractive.
They were all  um,    you know, dressed- a lot of 'em dressed well.
You know, they were put-  Well put together.
I- Really.
When I went up there, I-  I thought that-  I never had seen so many attractive black people in my life.
You know.
You know, they all took a lot of pride in- And then you know, I have to say that  you know,  a lot of those kids  that grew up in s- on-  that were  the s- You know,  this-  this is not- I mean I lived in New Orleans, so  I mean,  they were like,  bordering- Some of 'em were bordering on not even looking black.
You know.
And they had the nice  you know, whatever- My daughter gets mad when I say this,  but good hair.
And um,  you know,  features, you know-  They were-  They- You know, they- it- it- You know, it- I don't think it's any secret that  at least at one point in this  country because of  you know, slavery and  the light skin, dark skin thing, and  all of that,  that  a lot of people who got the opportunities,  were lighter skinned people.
And that  is very prominent in this city.
You know, it's prominent.
I mean it was at one point, prominent.
When I was coming up, that was prominent,  and you could see the difference.
And when I got to New Orleans, let's not even talk about New Orleans.
I mean they still have- Oh, it's much worse.
Much worse.
You know.
So a lot of those kids  were  you know-  And then we had some mixed race kids too.
We had some biracial kids, which was not  all that  common back then,  to have biracial-  biracial kids.
You know.
Well it depends on what they do- who they identify with like, I mean,  the  two that I knew  hung out with black-  Well one I grew-  One grew up in my neighborhood.
And um,  I-  You know, I think  their f-  W- Well their father was African American and their mother was  white,  from England.
And the father I think made a concerted effort  to  integrate them  into  the black community, so  I'm pretty sure he did.
So  um,    she definitely-  They definitely identified  with  uh, black people.
Now  that being said  he made a concerted  d- effort to integrate them, but not to the point where he was-  You know ,  drop 'em in the-  dropping in them in the hood.
You know.
He didn't want them to be that entrenched.
Only to a point.
I think h- Yeah.
Where did they l- They lived down the street from me.
But-  But we went to-  We went to school uptown.
I mean we- They went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Well the bro-  the brother went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Uptown is like,  um-  Sixteenth Street is upto- upper-  upper Northwest.
Upper Northwest, like,  where RD-SCHOOL-2 was.
That's uh, considered upper Northwest.
Um,  that's considered uptown.
Um,  Georgetown and- and above-  G- GW would be considered downtown,  you know.
Um,  so.
Uh.
Yeah, G- s-  GT is in the middle- Yeah, it's  j- in the middle of downtown, yeah.
It's in the Foggy Bottom area, but that's downtown.
Some people might consider that to be Georgetown because  it's in proximity to Georgetown.
But I never considered it be Georgetown because they call it Foggy Bottom  first of all.
And um,  I wish I knew more uh- had a more of a-  knew as much history about the area as some of my friends know about it.
You know, because you know,  all of these areas-  You know a lot of these  rich areas  now-  Georgetown and Foggy Bottom, there were slaves living there.
I think you know that.
I mean they still got black churches in Georgetown.
And there's a reason for that.
It's because black people used to live there.
There's still uh-  And then they got  kicked out  basically.
Why they have black churches in Georgetown ?
And the black people still go there.
There's still a few scattered around black families there  that didn't sell when  um,  when they were approached.
You know, cause my ex husband actually  um-  His father,  um,  he-  He's not from here.
He's from South Carolina, but he's older than me.
He's  sixty- He's in like his mid sixties.
And his father actually worked  for a Jewish man-  the Jewish man that was  largely responsible for  taking their property from those black people.
You know.
And moving them  to Anacostia  where at the time, white people lived.
I'm not that old .
I'm just kidding.
I was really young.
Yeah.
So  um,  w- Okay.
The-  Were the riots happen in sixty  three?
No, sixties.
Okay, I have to remember.
Okay, so- When did- When was Martin Luther King- King killed?
He was killed in sixty eight?
No.
Me too.
It was in the sixties.
I was a little girl in the sixties.
I was  born in sixty one.
So  I think  I remember  the march on Washington.
My mother was-  So he was still alive,  and I shoulda know this cause I saw something about Kennedy the other day  on hi- by his assassination, but  um,    I know my mother said she didn't go to the march on Washington because  she was pregnant with  my brother.
Think my younger brother, so that was sixty three.
So that means I was-  I don't know.
I don't have any independent recollection of that.
I-  I have  some  remembrances of things that happened in the sixties like,  um,  I remember my mother talking about- And I don't remember this, but I remember my mother talking about- So we lived  um-  So we lived- There's this bridge called the Susan Bridge, which separated  um,  Southeast from b- really the rest of the city.
And so  when  the- either the ri- when the riots happened, they-  they had the um-    What do you call those  people?
The National Guard  shut the bridge down,  so we couldn't get in or out.
And so my mother used to always say- And not- She's not the only one that said this.
I heard a lot of people say this-  That was to contain the black people  cause most of the black people lived across the bridge in Southeast.
Um,  I also remember  at the church  that I w- went to, which was across the street,  um-  I don't know what this was, but  they had- we had a very liberal minister.
He w-  He was a white guy, but for some reason he wanted to come to a black church.
And um-  Probably to prove how liberal he was.
And he had-  He rused to wear his hair- hair long which  the men-  the white men did at that time.
So you know, he was kind of a different priest kind- type of minister,  you know,  and real progressive-  Whatever.
I remember there being  people-  They let people sleep in the church  when people- And that might have been Vietnam.
You know, it was  a lot going on in DC.
But I was real little,  so  um,  that mighta been when the people came to protest for Vietnam, and then he would let them sleep.
They would-  They would camp- They could camp out in the church.
I remember that-  visually remembering that.
You know.
If I had other people, my friends, my brothers here, they probably could jog my memory.
Yeah.
I know you wouldn't have any recollection of any of it.
Yeah, so  you know.
Um,  I am-  Back then,  they were dying for black kids.
Black kids, they thought were smart,  and they would throw money at you.
Um,  somehow though, I decided that that was the um-  I don't know how I decided that.
That was the school I wanted to go to somehow I decided, and so I-  I applied Early Decision.
And I got in.
And I got some money, but  back then, money did- it didn't even really, you know-  You didn't even need that much money to go to college.
Not like you do today.
So my parents probably coulda paid for it.
They w-  coulda paid for it anyway,  but  I did get some money.
Um,  and then I went-  Then I-  I um-    I w-  went there.
And then there was another girl from my neighborhood that I knew that was a-  there before me so I went up there and visited.
And um,  you know,  I really liked it.
I mean I liked it.
I don't think I applied to any other school.
I don't remember applying to any other school.
Well this is the private- per- personal part of it.
I had  a-  um-  really big problem with depression.
And I still do.
Um,  so  I-  And it started when I was in high school.
I had my first episode in high school.
And then,  my parents,  because they were  educated and progressive,  and f-  They- You know, there wasn't-  They didn't have that-  I mean I have to say that that's what it is because you know, people in the black community do not  deal well with  mental illness.
And that's a special  um,  issue t- That's a  issue of great concern to me.
You know, being with somebody who has struggled with mental illness,  and um,  they sent me to a psychiatrist.
He was a black guy,  probably one of the few in the city  at the time.
And so I-  You know, that's when I got diagnosed.
But he thought that I  um,  was just having a-  like a-  You know they have this thing with like-  that I  was having an episode because I was-  because it was  l- like separation  from y- my parents, that  you know,  um, in going away to college.
But it turned out to be something  more than that.
So when I went to sc- when I went away,  I  had another episode,  and so I- You know, I didn't  really know how to deal with it.
So I just decided that I wanted to come home.
You know, and I came home.
I hated RD-SCHOOL-4.
Geo- I should have gone- I wanted to go to Georgetown.
I mean, I don't know what Georgetown's like now, but Georgetown back then-  You know, you're talking about the Georgetown of those basketball players.
Okay,  that was-  We used to- We used to even go- There was a place  on Georgetown's campus.
I can't remember the name of it now .
But it was like The Cellar.
Yeah, the- I think they changed names.
We- They had black night there.
And that place,  which was hopping,  okay?
It was like Thursday nights or something like that.
But that was when Patrick Ewing and  them were there,  and  it was  very-  They had quite-  You know, and I hear this about  a lot of the colleges throughout the country.
They're not as um-  Cause I had a girlfriend that when to Brown, and you would go on Brown's campus,  and you wouldn't know you were on a white school campus.
They would have parties- Like, they were partying in the hood  on Brown's campus.
And same with Harvard.
Cause when I was in- in Boston, we would go to Harvard,  and  I mean-  But I understand the schools are not like that anymore.
And that's how Georgetown was.
Okay?
And RD-SCHOOL-4 did-  s- I don't know how RD-SCHOOL-4 fell- fell by the wayside .
But RD-SCHOOL-4 was not  um,  you know-  It wasn't quite like that,  but  it was um-  And you know, I was a commuter student too, so it was kind of hard to get really-  And it was so different from RD-SCHOOL-1.
I had-  I made such-  As a matter of fact, one of my best friends to this day, even though I was there for a half an hour-  The I was telling you who-  who's on the  uh,  Board of Directors of the Boys and Girls Club in Westchester?
I met her at RD-SCHOOL-1.
She's still my good friend.
I mean like, for-  thirty something years later.
And she's the Godmother to my daughter,  so  you know, I  really bonded with a lot of people there  at RD-SCHOOL-1.
So I was heartbroken when I had to come home, but I was just too sick.
You know, I was too sick, or I f-  You know.
So  um, that's how I ended- I actually made the decision to go to RD-SCHOOL-4 because I didn't have a car,  and  I knew  I would have to catch the Metro.
So it was a practical decision.
Goodnight.
I didn't wanna go to Howard because I didn't think-  Well,  that's another thing.
My girlfriend and I were talking about this.
Unintelligible.
The same girlfriend of mine because her son goes to Howard, and now my daughter goes to Spelman.
And we were like,  wait a minute.
You know,  it's something about  that  generation.
Now you-  you know, you  are clearly the exception but  it's something about that generation.
We  were like-  My parents went to black schools.
They had to go to black schools.
Her parents went to black schools.
They had to go to black schools.
O- Once we got the o-  the-  the choice,  a lot of us turned-  turned our noses up against black schools.
So Howard wasn't even really a consideration for me.
Even though I know-  I know  people that went to Howard.
You know, but a lot of people  in  this city went- they went to Howard by default.
Funny.
You know .
You know, so  you know.
But that's how I felt about it.
And when she and I talked about it,  and she was like, Well that-  you know, that's had to have been going-  Aside from the fact that  white schools w-  were throwing money at us.
So  you know-  you know that was a big consideration too.
But that didn't h- have say anything to do with why I didn't apply to Howard.
You know.
But Howard did not have- Howard didn't have a Metro at the time either.
Howard did not have a Metro, so RD-SCHOOL-4 was  Catholic,  AU.
I didn't think about those.
So that's how I ended up at RD-SCHOOL-4.
And um,  RD-SCHOOL-4 was not as hard as RD-SCHOOL-1.
That's another thing.
That's ho- I mean because I've been to- through different schools, I can say you know, that certain schools are harder than others.
You know,  RD-SCHOOL-4 wasn't as hard as RD-SCHOOL-1.
You know.
I think RD-SCHOOL-4 has changed.
I don't know, maybe it hasn't.
I don't know.
Maybe it was just my experience, but-  but maybe  they talk about the academic of rigor, but  RD-SCHOOL-1 was a little Ivy.
I mean as academic r- -ly as RD-SCHOOL-4 may or may not be, it is not academically as rigorous,  a- I can say for sure, as Harvard.
So you have different levels of academic rigor.
You know?
I don't know.
I know I went t- to those two schools and they- RD-SCHOOL-4- And I had the same major.
RD-SCHOOL-4 was not  as hard.
Psychology.
Surprise surprise.
Mm, no, not really.
I think my mother really kind of pushed me.
My father was very happy and very proud of me, no mistake.
Um, and he did-  I really wanted to be a psychologist,  and um,  he did  um,  he did tell me that he thought I would make more m-  I wanted to get  um- I-  I wanted to get a-  maybe a big  um-    I wanted to get a PhD in Psychology.
Maybe a combined PhD  JD, which was a program they had at the time.
But he told me that he-  he told me that um,  I mean,  you know.
He was a man of  few words but  he told me that  he thought I would make more money as a lawyer,  that I wouldn't ma-  I wouldn't make as much money as a um-  as a-  as a psychologist.
S- That's right.
That's been my only career as a d- as an adult.
No.
I have not enjoyed it.
I'm happy for the  uh-  What do you call it?
Some of the skills that I've learn-  that I learned in law school, but oof.
Mm-mm.
It's-  Mm-mm.
I mean-  No, I haven't enjoyed it.
And  you know, I struggled through law school.
So  you know,  common sense should have told me that I wasn't going to enjoy being a lawyer .
I mean, it's just like,  killing yourself to get through engineering school, and then expecting you- expecting you to like being an engineer.
You know?
No.
You know?
And I just-  You know.
I like the idea of the-  the-  you know,  the-  the title  I guess, and  you know, people-  Some people are impressed.
And I think when I first came out, I was impressed with myself,  but it was because I um,    I worked so hard.
And I really didn't think I was gonna make it through.
I worked really hard.
And- and part of me-  I mean I know a big part of me is  um-  I am-  I wanted to prove to myself that I could do it, which is not a really good reason to  start a career.
But you know, when you're in it  and you're young,  you know.
Cause I didn't want anybody to ever say that I c- I didn't wanna ever say  that I couldn't do it,  but you know,  I sort of wanted to be a social worker,  something like that.
Or, I mean, I really still love psychology.
I read about psychology,  you know, that type of thing.
You know, that's definitely who I am.
You know.
Um, no.
Not at this point.
I mean there are things that uh- that I can do to um-  You know, at this point- At a certain point,  you know, a job becomes  a job.
It becomes a way to  uh,  make money.
And um,  you know, don't get me wrong.
I'm happy.
I'm h- I have a good job,  and um,  it doesn't take up all of my time.
You know.
So  um.
That- I have been so-  That really just-  The only time that I do that type of stuff-  I mean I really wanna do better at that,  and  um-  is when people come to town.
Now  I-  You know, and I have a-  And as I've gotten older, I definitely-  You know, that's definitely on m- my to do list.
Um, and then-  You know, there's certain things that I even forgot existed, like the Frederick Douglass house is like, right  in  Anacostia, up on the hill,  and I had totally forgotten about that until somebody  mentioned-  Did you tell me that?
No.
There's somebody that I was talking to  who said  um,  Yeah, and I went to the Frederick Douglass hou- I'm like- I was like, the-  dang I forgot about the Frederick Douglass house.
I wanna go back and look at that.
And um,    the Smithsonians.
I mean I do things like,  when I'm like, super interested.
Like,  I wanted to go see the Bill Cosby exhibit,  so I did that.
You know.
I- I have a girlfriend that actually got tickets to go to the White House,  and  um,  she's coming from Florida to go,  and she called me and asked me did I wanna go to the White House.
I was like, Yeah, I-  Have I ever been?
I don't think I've ever been  to the White House.
I might have when I was little girl.
You know.
But no, I have not been a tourist in my home town.
And that-  that's definitely something that I need to-  You know, I'm getting really up in age, and I really need to um-  You know, and I wish I had taken- And I hope you do this with your daughter,  like maybe every weekend when she gets to be a certain age,  just  make it a point to take her once place.
You know?
And as she grows up, um-  You know, she's in school here, so she's gonna g- she's gonna go- She's not in school in Georgia though.
She goes to school in Georgia?
Oh I didn't know that.
Oh,  well that- You should definitely make a point of that because she's not gonna-  you're not gonna- You know, if she was in school here, they would  take her on little-  take 'em on a little  um,  field trips and stuff like that.
But you should- When she's here for the summer, you should just make it a point  of saying, We're just gonna do one thing  every weekend.
Cause I wish I had done that with my daughter.
You know.
Cause there's a lot to see here.
Tons of stuff to see here,  and a lot of it is free.
They come from miles and mi- And the cherry blossoms,  and you know, just-  So yeah.
No I have not been a- as much of a tourist in my own town- own town  as I should be.
Oh God.
Here we go.
Well they just had something on the radio talking about go go.
Can they keep it alive?
It's alr- Yeah I like Chuck Brown.
I actually looked at  um-  I also have to say- You know what?
And I'm gonna say this, and my friend got mad at me  cause I have another friend, and he wants to come do this interview so bad.
And he was calling me.
He's like, Well have you gone yet?
I was like, RD-NAME-2.
And then I was telling him that you were from Georgia, right?
He went to Morehouse, so he's like,  I bet I know her father.
I was like, RD-NAME-2.
He said, ask her if she knows so and so and so.
I was like, She's not gonna know these old people.
She-  But um, so he um-  We had this debate  cause I told him  I didn't get into go go when I was younger.
I didn't go to those go go places,  and he was like-  Cause I said- And I was telling him- I said, That was socioeconomic.
That was a socioeconomic thing.
And he said- Although my daughter is very much into go go, okay?
So he said-    He said, No it's not.
No it's not.
So we were having that debate or whatever.
It-  it- Go go miss-  I- Somehow go- I missed go go  um,  coming up.
But  um,    I like it.
And I s-  And I mean I like some of it.
And then, I um-  But I didn't-  I wasn't involved when I was younger.
I never went to a go go  um, whatever they call it.
They ha- They have a name for it.
Maybe it's go go.
Right.
I never-  I never went to any- any go go parties.
I never dance,  you know, into- went into any house parties where they did go go.
Um,  and uh,  you know, I basically was f-  first really turned on to go go by  Spike Lee's movie.
You know and that was when I was in college or a little bit after college during the ?- And that's- that took it-  He- You know, he kind of took it on the national level with that.
He hooked up with Chuck Brown  or he came to- He used to hang out in DC,  and he would come down to DC from New York.
And then he heard go go, and then, you know, when it became famous,  then he was like, I'm gonna- You know, I'm'a-  I'm'a put-  go go on the map.
You know?
So  but  um,  Chuck Brown was a genius.
And I actually saw something.
They do- They have this thing called Unsung.
Unsung?
They did something on him, and I saw that a few weeks ago.
And um,  you know,  and mumbo sauce.
That's so stereotypical .
I don't even know what mumbo sauce is.
I don't-  I don't-  I don't know if I've ever tasted mumbo sauce.
I probably have.
I probably have tasted it, but.
Mm, not anymore.
No.
Those things-  that's just like the difference between  uh,  a wine and beer store and a liquor store.
I mean I used to go to the carry outs.
Yeah.
I mean,  and I know I have had mumbo sauce.
I h- I can r-  think in my head  the times when I would go cause I had a girlfriend that liked mumbo sauce.
But I'm- I'm not like a real  big  food person  in terms of like, experimenting with foods.
Blah de blah de blah, that thing- that thing.
But  um, yeah carry out is the place where you can go and um-  They don't have carry outs everywhere-  at o-  other places?
It's so funny .
That's hilarious, a carry out.
Um,  it's the pl- it- it's usually you can't really go in there and sit.
You walk in and  a lot of times they're-  well they used to black people  owned them, but now they're Asians.
You go in there and  um,  make- put your order,  and they  put your order in a bag.
They go to- to the back.
They make the food.
Usually they have chicken,  wings, as they call 'em.
And they- and  yes, people want mumbo sauce with it.
And um,  you know,  they  I guess sometimes they have burgers and fries and-  But it's usually in my head- in the back of my head, it's usually chicken wings.
And then you-  they put it in a-  they cook it.
They put it in a bag,  wrap it up,  put it in a bag, and you walk out.
You pay 'em and you walk out.
And you have-  you buy a soda.
And you walk out.
You can't sit down  cause it's a carry out.
You carry it out.
That's why they call it a carry out.
Cause you carry it out .
Where you're from.
Yeah.
It's confusing.
And then you- You got to know where you're going though.
And some of 'em are very-  are- have good reputations  I think.
And some of 'em,  you know,  they don't.
But I don't go.
I don't- Yeah, I haven't been to a carry out in a long time.