November fourteen.
Two thousand one.
Yeah.
I was born in  naturally DC,  but I have like, a history of like-  from like-  in, like, cultural wise, I have like,  people from like, different places.
Like I got  Italian in my family,  Bahamian,  and like I have- I just a have a lot.
Like-    Like one day I asked my grandmother, this when I had like long  plaits and like,  I was like, seven.
And like,  it was just that like,  I asked my grandmother how come  my hair  looks different from everybody else's.
They was like,  because  you have  different  like,  culture in your family.
Like, you have Italian,  Bahamian.
You have like-  you have like a history of like people with good hair.
I mean like,    I don't really claim neighborhoods like that, but like,  me - like, my brother,  he be around like,  thirty seven like,  I just claimed this, like-  Like where my brother be at, like,  that's where I need to be at.
Cause like, that's where I feel safe at.
Thirty seven.
N- yeah, that's Northeast.
N- I live close to there.
Like right down the street.
Thirty seven.
Well some people call it the Yo.
The Yo.
Yeah.
It's just the Yo.
That's what it mean-  Thirty seven.
They- well,  they just came up with the name the Yo cause.
Yeah, basically.
But I've been to different places.
Like I been to Florida.
I've been to the Bahamas.
I've been to, uh,  Mexico.
I've been to, uh, New York.
Nah.
Yeah.
Well my first elementary school was RD-SCHOOL-2,  and then I had like,  a person- Like,  a guardian across the street that used to walk me  to school  and home,  cause like, I was young.
I ain't had no direction.
And it was right down the hill.
And then like,  my other school was like-    And then I started to go to i- different schools like,  RD-SCHOOL-3.
That was like,  the start of my middle school,  and I met a lot of friends there.
I stayed until like,  fifth grade.
And then I went to that school called RD-SCHOOL-4.
Then that's when I stayed there until my eighth grade year  because  they canceled high school.
And that's why now,  I'm in ninth grade.
I go to RD-SCHOOL-4.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They stopped at eighth grade.
The one on Capitol Hill.
No.
I'm wo- I'm getting a- I'm getting a summer job next summer though.
I don't know.
I think I might work at the Boys and Girls Club.
Yeah.
But then some of my friends said they had some problems with their money, but I need my money up front.
Yeah.
Not really.
My mom?
She was born like,  basically in like, DC, but she grew up  in Trinidad.
Don't- you're loud.
My mom?
She works at RD-WORK-2.
So like,  if I'm not feeling well,  she know what to do.
Okay.
The first house I remember living in.
My-  my first house  I ever lived in was like,  this house  that we lived on Thirtieth Street.
And like, that was the first home, that like, I felt like,  I was-  Like I grew up in.
Like  when I was a child,  that's where I grew up at.
I remember when I was a child,  like, I used to like,  do different things in the house.
Like-  like my mother  and my grandmother used to tell me, they used to be like, I used to walk  throughout the house  without turning out  one light.
And go downstairs to their room  and lay with them.
Yeah, I-  We had- See,  I didn't have a color room cause I slept with my mom.
She had a room though.
She wasn't even there, but okay.
And uh,   so like we had- how many?
So it was my mother room,  my grandmother room,  which is now in the basement, and then we had RD-NAME-2 room.
And then we had like-  It was like this extra room in there  for my uncle.
Four- and so it's- it was five  basically.
Yeah, cause.
Yeah I watched TV, and then, like,  I used to play outside,  like only in the winter co- winter come cause-  One winter,  it was like,  something happened to the grass, and like, it was frozen to a block.
Then that's when,  I went outside, and I got to sliding on it.
Yeah.
Summer time,    man-  I- I usually- usually might just go to the pool.
Like,  go to a hotel.
Like, I went to a hotel  to go have some fun.
So like,  it was just funny in that house.
Like, it was so funny.
Like every day it  was like,  a laugh.
Like my grandmother used to  argue with my dad-  i-  no, my granddad.
It used to be funny.
And then my mother  used to argue with my grandmother,  and  it used to be funny.
Like everything was just funny to me.
So that's when,  my granddad,  he was the funniest one.
He had me dying.
I used to be in the house  laying on the floor,  laughing.
It was so funny.
Man,   he used to curse people out.
It was so funny.
And    he used to have- he- he used to be joning on people.
It was funny.
We used to tell jokes  and laugh.
It used to be funny.
Very.
Like, if I got in trouble, he would take up for me.
That was my ride or die.
Yeah.
I remember that like, he was like,  one of my first father figures cause my father wasn't around a lot when I was like, that age.
He taught me how like, to like-  he taught me like how to grow up to be a man.
Like, he taught me like,  how to do certain things like  he taught me how to ride a bike.
And like,  s- he didn't do it alone.
Like  he had my mother,  my grandmother,  my sister,  and like,  it was just-  Like he would- he didn't do it alone.
He always had a team that had his back.
Yes.
Very.
It was funny.
I mean like,  I'd ride past it, but like, I never just  like  stopped at it and just- just looked at it, and like,  it'll brought back memories.
But like every time I ride past it,  I like,  have like a flashback of me playing in the back yard.
Mm-hm.
It looked the same.
Well the outside do, but the inside  is totally different.
They remodeled it, and then like,  it's crazy.
I'm thirteen.
She twenty five.
That's like- What's that, twelve?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm about to be fourteen.
My glow day.
Glow day.
That takes me back.
Man.
When I was little  my sister always used to irritate me.
She used to  irk me about everything.
She used to irk me that-  did I have everything prepared for something?
Like say if, like, we'd be going out,  make sure you get everything ready the day before that.
And then that's how I be like,  man.
That's when I was little.
She was going to college.
I was going to m-  uh, elementary school.
Yes, she did.
She- she took me right down the street to RD-SCHOOL-2 and just said,  he's gonna go here right now.
And that's when I was like, alright man.
It's what up.
Then that's when like, she was just-  she was just right there with me the whole time.
Like we was close.
Yeah, that was my partner in crime.
Yeah, it's like when-  Like when I got in trouble  for stupid stuff  that I used to do in school,  she could have an explanation for it.
G-  get me out of trouble.
Don't get me started with her.
So- so sometimes  I used to hide a lot.
So like,    I was the master at Hide and Go Seek when I was little cause I was like-  I was like all short and skinny and boney.
So one day,    I ain't feel like doing something.
Then my grandmother, she get to looking for me.
So,  I wanna be  like,  Spiderman.
That was my, uh-  that was like my  childhood  cartoon character.
He was my favorite.
So,  I climbed up the wall, and I got on the ceiling!
So they wouldn't find me!
They walked past me like seven times in a row.
I'm pretty sure I think my mom saw me but I think she didn't say nothing, but she really didn't see me!
So  I used to hide on the ceiling.
They walked past me like six times, so like  I thought it was funny.
So I sat on the wall-  No, I sat on the ceiling, then that's when my grandma walked past me one more time.
I said, Grandma!
She said,  where you at?
I was like, I'm on the ceiling.
She was like-  She was like, no you not.
I was like, look up.
She saw me, so I was like-   I got to laughing.
My feet and my hands.
Spiderman style.
Like hold it.
I w- For a long period of time.
And then like,  it was just funny  because like,  I remember like,  when I used to help Grandma with the la- wi- like the laundry, like, she- she would tell me, sit in the basket, and roll me down the steps.
It used to be fun.
Like I used to- it used to be like a roller coaster.
It was so funny.
Then that was when,  as a child,  I had the most  craziest experience.
I fell down like  twenty steps,  and I got up and walked up like nothing happened.
I was like,  man, I can't believe I just fell down the steps, and I'm not crying.
It was so funny.
Yes I was.
Very.
By my granddad and my grandmother.
She still do spoil me.
Mm-hm.
I'm a grandma boy.
Yup.
Love my grandma.
Ah.
This is why I just said, don't bring her in here.
This my house, too.
Grandma, go in your room.
Me  and  my sister.
Oh yeah, I remember that night .
That night was crazy.
S-  Mm-  Man, school- That one right there.
Alright, so man,  school was crazy.
Like    I used to do dumb stuff.
Like I used to like,  do stuff that I know I'm'a get in trouble for.
Now I be like- And I- I just- I- I just think back- I'm like,  what was the point in doing it?
Like,    one day,  they called my mother.
No, they called my sister.
I told 'em, call my sister.
I didn't tell 'em, call my mother, cause I knew she was gonna, yeah,  do too much.
So    they call my sister.
S- they said, I did a cartwheel over the desk.
I said,  okay.
I take that one.
Take that one for the team.
So, RD-NAME-2-  so like, RD-NAME-2,  just sit there,  chill out.
Then that's when  all of a sudden,  my mother popped up.
I said,  dang, now I know I'm in trouble.
Then that's when,  like, now-   like in eighth grade-  like last year-  my grandmother-    every time I used to get in trouble,  that's the one I used to call.
Like,    say if like, I get sent to the office for talking too much,  they'd call my- I- I tell 'em, call my grandmother.
And then sometimes-  It was this one time- I didn't want-  my Grandma told me,  they better not call my phone.
So this is what I did,  I went in the bathroom before I went to the office,  turned my phone on.
They called me.
And that's when I left a voicemail like I called my mother.
Very crazy.
Then my sister, she-  I used to come home.
She used to give me like, thirty minute lectures.
About staying out of trouble.
Like she used to be like,    RD-NAME-2, you can't be doing that dumb stuff in school.
Like, it's dumb.
It's pointless.
Like, why are you doing this?
Oh yeah, I forgot I got in trouble .
.
So we went to Crystal's.
So  I- I- this is like,  seventh or eighth?
Alright.
Eighth grade.
So we go down- We go down to Crystal's.
RD-NAME-2 mad cause  I'm skating around,  killing it.
I was dancing like muh.
Then that's when    all the little girls were coming up to me.
They was like, you cute and all that.
She got mad.
Like RD-NAME-2 had that face where it was like,    Do you think you cute?
I was like,  Yes I am.
Thank you very much.
Then that's when it was just like, yeah.
Yes ma'am.
Oh, man.
This the funniest story.
So,    when I was little-    So I saw this video on, uh, TV.
So I was like, Grandma,    this new song Michael Jackson, Thriller came out.
She said,    boy, that song came out when I was little.
I was like,  dang.
That's a- That's a- That's a good song though right there.
Then that's when-  Then that's when I got to watching more of his videos, and that's when  like-  like every anniversary he used to have,    I used to be in there partying.
Then that's when  my grandmother used to be like,  RD-NAME-2 could do whatever Michael can do.
I don't know why he's so special  then everybody else  when people could do the same stuff.
Then that's when I was like, man, true.
Then that's when  Grandma showed me this one anniversary show on BET.
Then that's when  he did the moon walk.
Then that's when I was like,    alright.
He think he can do that.
I can do it too.
So I did the moon walk  for a couple of-  for a couple of weeks,  and I got it down.
Then yeah.
I- I used to beat all them in it.
The only person that ever beat me  was like, my aunt.
And that's it.
Yeah, my Godmother.
Man shit was fun.
Oh yes.
So    one day,  my mother ca- well no.
I was in the house,  and my mother tell me come outside.
She tell me to put on some clothes.
Like,  where I'm going?
Alright so,    put on some clothes,  get in the car.
She said- she talking to one of her- her little girlfriends.
She like,    she wants you to dance for the Wiz Kids.
I was like,  man, okay.
So,    we go down there,  looking around.
I'm seeing some new faces.
See my cousin and get to talking to her.
Then that's when  all these little girls on the team talking about something, they like me.
Then so I was like,  man, this is my first day.
I ain't finna go with nobody.
Y'all gonna have to wait.
So    couple of years went by.
Like-  Then like, I'm starting to get accustomed to everybody,  and like, we get to-  we get to talking,  conversating.
We was getting in it,  like, we was dancing!
And then like,  like I'm like the team captain.
Like I'm the funniest person,  and then like, my coach,  he like my .
We be laughing together.
His name Coach RD-NAME-1.
We have some laughs.
Then that's when  I used to just be the star of the show.
Like,  out of everybody,  you could see me.
About like  four to three years.
Yeah.
I'm aging out.
Grown man.
Both.
You gotta- you gotta audition cause like if you on Wizards,  you automatically go to Wiz Kids.
So they not doing auditions for the  uh, Mystics  if  you didn't do Wiz Kids.
So like-  So if you come to M- Wiz Kids, you got two years on you right here.
You get to- Yeah.
And then like sometimes, Yeah like sometimes we would dance at the Howard, and then like  every time I g- uh, every time,    I go!
So like, I'm basically MVP.
So like,  VIP section only  for me.
Totally.
Most valuable player.
So one day    come from school, RD-NAME-2 call me.
She was like,    RD-NAME-2 I work at this new place called the Bri- RD-WORK-4.
I'm like, m-  okay?
And I'm supposed to be in it?
She was like, yes!
You need to come down here.
It looks fun.
Really?
I got to come down there today?
Yes.
So I'm looking at that.
I'm like,  Okay.
See- I see  some good stuff in here.
Go downstairs, see the gym,  running in there,  balling out.
So    ever since like,  that moment like,    I fell in love with the RD-WORK-4, and like,  as  years went by,  they started a upgrade.
They got some new stuff.
They found out the future exists.
Computers.
Like  that's crazy.
Like they used to have the little desktop things.
Like you got to click the mouse.
Not a  touch screen.
They got some good stuff.
They up- they- they upgraded the uh, games room.
The games room like,    the floor was like- they was all crazy.
Like they had footprint marks in it  from like, people stepping on 'em.
Then that's when,  they had scuffs marks and all of that.
That's when they upgraded, painted the room all white,  white and blue a little bit.
I was like, okay.
Then that's when    the gym-  the gym been the same ever since, and I still like it  cause like,  I get to do what I like to do.
I like to play basketball.
I ball out.
I'm a young baller.
Very much.
Man, my favorite team is OKC.
Yeah.
They got my two  peoples.
They got my man Russell Westbrook and KD.
KD is like my idol.
Like-    Like it was a song that I heard, and it was like,  catching them, shooting like KD .
And I was all like,  oh!
Then that's when-  .
But I used to like K- like,  KD is like,  one of my-  first players that I ever liked.
If KD come to DC,  better watch out now  cause they got John Wall and Bradley Beal.
Cause I like it.
I really like Passport to Manhood, and then like last year, I did Torch Club and like-  I won Torch Club president.
And then like,  that's just  a good feeling cause like that was my f-  that was like  my second or first year there.
And like,  I won Torch Club president.
And then like,  it was just crazy.
And then like-  I like, um, Passport to Manhood.
And then what else?
Whatever uh- And then- Because like, Passport to Manhood, it taught you like-  it taught you like, not to  like, do too much.
Like, don't claim no hoods like that.
And then like-  cause like, that  results into like gang beef.
Then that's when,  just don't claim that stuff.
Then that's when  it- it just like,  taught you how to be a man even more  like,  mentally.
Torch Club, it just taught me how to be a leader.
It was a leadersh- it was a leadership program, so like,  I learned how to be a leader during Torch Club.
Nah, I aged out.
Like,  it was just crazy.
Yeah.
But I can't run for office.
Cause I'm in ninth grade.
Yup.
Yup, everyone get smart phones.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
Y'all might get smart phones for everybody.
Yup.
I mean, but I don't know if y'all get money like that, I mean.
If y'all do enough programs, and like get that money, then yeah, y'all can get that shmoney.
This is what I'd do.
I'd be like,  hey y'all,  I mighta go-  mighta go sell some stuff.
Like I mighta go sell like,  some cookies,  some cupcakes,  school supplies.
Different stuff.
Headphones.
Chargers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Whatchu mean by that?
I mean like, you could- you could use the old school supplies.
Like just wash it up, make it brand new.
You take an unsharpened pencil,  make it sharpened.
Take a old eraser,  go buy a new one.
At where?
That's so many.
I can't take 'em.
At my school, every class is funny.
And like,    I like all my teachers except one.
Like she-  Mm.
My teachers are- my teachers- some of my teachers are my friends.
Alright, so, my music teacher,  he my friend.
He like Chris Brown.
We be laughing.
He funny.
He cool.
But like, it just be like,  the stuff- like, the stuff that- the music that he teaches, like, it's like,  it's just boring.
Like,   like,  this whole- like this whole time  that like, we been in school, we been talking about opera.
Like,  I don't even know that much about opera.
All I know is that they singing.
Like they sing high and low.
Like,   like, we learned about like, sonata form,  and like,  the overture and all that.
And then like,  it's just crazy.
And then like,    my friends like, we just be laughing.
Like we have a ball in every class, and then like, we still get our work done.
Like, this week-  all this week, we did a PowerPoint  on like,  how to make your own planet, and then like,  I reached up,  uh, like,  a website.
Like the how to make your own planet, so like,  that's what I did.
Yeah.
No, I l- I looked it up.
I was like, how to create a planet.
Then that's when,  I just found it,  then that's when, I got to  making my planet.
My planet looks sweet.
It's called Fire.
Yup, cause it's fire.
It's very hot.
And then like, on my planet,  all you got is shopping places.
Like you got DTLR,  you got Shoe City,  and then like, everywhere you go,    it's just like this new little adventure that they made.
It's like- it's called the Segway.
So you step on it, and you roll around.
Everybody got one.
Everybody got one for theyself.
At my planet, we create them.
They come in all different colors.
They come in gold, red, green, black, white.
Even purple.
I mean, my friends, they can come to planet.
Like, it's whatever.
Like y'all can come over there.
Y'all can say, what's up?
to me.
What's up?
That be up.
That's so many.
I can't name 'em!
Yeah, like, sometimes like,  after school, like we'd go to Chipotle together.
Like we'd had lunch together.
Like we'd just,  like,  with us, it's just like-  it's whatever.
And then like,    it's just that my school- it's like- it's crazy cause like, other schools don't like us.
Like-    like, man,  RD-SCHOOL-2,  they-  they  always try to jump us so like,  if they try to jump us- if you gonna come back with some like b- like we gonna get somebody back.
So like-  like say if one person get to fighting, then like, other people try to jump- j- try to jump in it.
We got each other's back.
Like, it's just that  it's a system, but like, we work together.
Yes,  very.
Cause like,  I-  I had my altercation with RD-SCHOOL-2.
I had to drop  this one boy  cause he was faking.
So I was walking  down Eastern Market.
So this boy,  he was like-    He was like, you a s- you a sucker.
That's when I was like,  you can't prove it.
Then that's when he dropped his stuff,  dropped my stuff,    got to squaring up.
Then that's when  we get to fighting.
I dropped him.
Then that's when  he get to walking off talking about,  he didn't even drop me.
I slipped.
That's when I was like, alright bruh.
Just like that.
Yes, we got every- everybody got a partner.
I mean like, we not against RD-SCHOOL-2.
Like we don't even  do nothing.
Like we just get out of school and they d- and they just  up there ready to fight somebody.
Four twenty five.
The only s- The only sch- The only school that I know that might be able to do something like that is like RD-SCHOOL-2.
And like, that's just right down the street and like around the corner, like, by that Subway up there.
Man, we be having a ball.
Like,    it's like those my- those my balling people.
Like if i- like-    Like- like, I said yesterday- like I said it yesterday, like, those my people that like,  I would take anywhere.
Like say if like,    man, you wan- you wanna go do something?
Come on y'all.
We can go e-  We can go with them.
They like- they like my people that like, I like to ball with.
Like,  the boys, like- we ball-  we would  ball-  All  ball together.
And then like, we know each other's skill level.
Like this boy named RD-NAME-3.
Man, he swinging his stuff, but I beat him like the other day.
Then that's when    he get to faking talking about something.
I was moving my pivot foot when I made the game point.
He-  he was mad.
But like, yeah, those my balling people.
Like all my friends around there's like boys, and then like,  some of the little kids know me from like, Torch Club president, so like, they give me hugs and all that.
And then like,  they little-  they little  cutie-  cutie self.
They try to get all cute.
They all small.
They don't even hug me.
They hug my kneecaps.
Yeah, everybody know me,  and then like,  they know if RD-NAME-2 like that like-    I don't like to take stuff seriously.
I- I- I like to make stuff like,  like funny.
Like I can't just sit there and be like,  one  two  three  four- No.
I gotta add some  hype into it.
Like I be like, one  two- like I got to- like I got to turn up like,    y'all can't just send me there,  and just  expect to be boring.
Like, I'm'a be funny at the same time.
And then like,  this girl,    I go with her.
That's my girlfriend.
Man, we get- we got to talking like one game cause I was like that    I liked her, so then that's when    I just started to go with her.
I told her I like her.
She was like, alright then.
We should go together.
Then that's when we went together.
Uh, it's a month Monday.
Yup.
Yeah.
No comment.
I mean one of my girlfriends, we did, but then like she- Can't trust nobody.
Mm-hm.
Can't  trust  these  .
Two,  and that's it.
Mm-mm.
They don't know about no- they don't know about each other.
Her name is also anonymous.
.
Like-  Like we stay on Facetime, and then like, we be calling each other boo and all that.
Then yeah.
I don't keep 'em apart.
They keep each other apart.
Like they go to  two different schools.
They don't know each other.
Mm-mm.
They don't know each other at all.
Mm-mm.
One- one live in like, close to Maryland,  and then one live in DC, Anacostia.
So yeah.
I mean, it- I mean if we do,  then I'm'a have to have drop one of 'em.
They both- they both ain't gonna drop me.
Whatchu saying?
They ain't gonna drop me.
They-  They love me too much.
But my sister know she come first out of all them.
Mm-hm.
Then my grandmother and my mother.
They claim they my girlfriends.
Hi boo.
Um,  I like like,  e- hip hop and like, rap.
And then like,  dance, I like  like robotic  music.
Like,  I'm just  like,-   I'm like a human slinky.
I'm a robot myself.
Swipey.
Swipey and Migos.
Swipey.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Migos.
Pipe it up.
They make a lot of songs.
You wanna hear one?
Oh man.
Alright.
Alright.
Uh, what's- what's my song?
Um,    what's one of 'em?
You can talk now!
Oh yeah.
Pipe it up.
Uh, pipe it up.
Pipe it up.
Uh,  I walk in the club just to pipe it up.
I walk in the club just to pipe it up.
Man that's the song right there.
You just gotta know the words to get the jam  and then like, the big turnt- he be like,  deaw.
Oh, all too well.
Yeah.
I be topping in there.
I know about my man Chuck Brown.
RIP- Rest in peace, Chuck.
.
My grandmother.
My sister.
My mother.
My grandfa- father.
Alright, so the first song I heard by Chuck Brown,  my grandma was blasting it in her room.
It was like, warm me up    Chuck.
Okay!
That was the illest go go song I ever heard.
Like,   I was- like I was like- I was jamming off that song.
Like that was my old head jam.
Like I was like,    ooh.
Okay.
Oh.
Like I was tearing up that jam.
I mean, yeah I know XIB.
Uh, who else?
TCB.
All them, they cool.
XIB  I'm in the Kitchen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Take it, Grandma.
Cook it up.
Cook it up Grandma.
Ooh.
Up.
Oh-  away it go.
Grandma got to do it.
Do it just one time, Grandma.
Grandma, do it one time.
Grandma- Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
It's-  It's totally different than hip hop.
Like, hip hop, all they talking about is like selling drugs, smoking weed.
Like,    I mean, I- I like the sound of it.
But like, not all the time.
Like go go music, I usually like-   go go like Chuck Brown or something like that.
Like,  Run Joe, like that's a good song right here.
Because like, go go music, they talk about like- They talk about like, the life they been through.
Like,  hip hop music,    it's some fakes out there that haven't even done nothing.
Like this boy name Slim Jesus, he came up with this song named Drill Town.
So,  he talk about all these guns,  and, uh,  doing drugs and all that,  and then like, they had a interview with him,  and he talking about some,    he not with the street stuff.
Like,  why did you make that song if you not with it?
That's dumb.
Mm.
Yeah.
I only eat it on my fries though.
I don't- I don't get it on the chicken.
Because  it's messy.
Mm-hm.
Stuff that I eat.
Sweet.
A little-  a little tart.
It's good.
Yum's Carry Out.
Nah, not Yum's.
Nah, it's not that-  It's Danny's.
Danny's and George's.
Mm-hm.
They like close together.
It's like Danny's is like-    it used to be one down there by Thirtieth Street.
I think it's still down there.
And then like, I like this one pizza place.
It's called  Mario's.
And Mario's, they got the best pizza.
And then like,  George's, it's like-    It's not even too far from the house, for real.
Mm-hm.
They be like, give me ten minute.
They used to be funny.