Yes.
Yes.
Southeast.
No, um-  They kind of refer to it as Hillcrest.
It's not like a neighborhood.
It's more for like, older  retired people.
It's off of Alabama Avenue And it's all houses.
It's right before the borderline of Maryland.
Mm-hm.
Now I do.
I live in Northeast now.
RD-SCHOOL-3  RD-SCHOOL-4.
Mm-hm .
A membership coordinator  for RD-WORK-4.
Premier.
Mm-hm.
We're premier.
I- It has- I know, that's what everybody says.
But I don't know.
DC.
DC.
I have no idea.
So, uh, But no, my father was killed a month before I was born.
So I never met him, never met that side of the family.
Nothing at all about him.
Not nothing.
My mom, um, she's a patient  and registration clerk at RD-WORK-2.
But I was raised  by my grandparents.
My mom in the household,  but she was young when she had me.
She had me at fourteen.
So my grandparents raised me.
So my grandfather would have been my father figure.
I don't know if you want to use him.
Mkay.
Okay.
So my mom had me at fourteen,  and so for insurance purposes and legal purposes, my grandparents had to adopt me  because if they didn't, I wouldn't have been able to get insurance and stuff like that.
And so although my mom was in the household, it was more like we was raised a-  as sisters  opposed to mother and daughter.
And then eventually once she got older to move out on her own,  I just naturally stayed with  my grandparents.
When my mom left, she was maybe in her early twenties, like twenty two.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Grandparents.
I think it- it may have been both  because I'm not gonna say that I was spoiled, but I was spoiled.
So even when my mom tried to do  that discipline thing, my grandparents kind of step in and was like, no.
And she didn't like that, like, at the end of the day, she's still my child.
And so when she tried to discipline me, they kind of disciplined her.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
So,  and then after- because she was still young, I think it may have been like a type of  envy.
Type of  thing.
I believe so cause we had like uh, a rocky patch in our relationship.
And it wasn't until I really got older, probably like high school,  college that we got like, real close.
Okay, so  again, my grandparents-  I don't want to say they kept me sheltered in, but I didn't live in a neighborhood.
So,  I lived in a five bedroom, four bathroom house.
I'm talking about you go outside, you could hear  a pin drop,  the birds chirping.
All older people, really no kids on my block.
And as I got older and wanted to play with kids, and I went to school,  I'm like, well dad,  talking to my grandfather-  I want to hang out where the ice cream trucks come, and  everybody's outside playing.
And I want to hang in the neighborhood.
And he was just over protective.
But then my best friend,  who I met  lived in a neighborhood Woodland,  and I used to have to beg  to go over there.
But he made sure he dropped me off  and picked me up.
So I didn't live in a neighborhood essentially,  but as I got older,  I started to hang  with my best friend in her neighborhood.
Very quiet.
Very safe.
Uh!
Yes.
Mm, yes.
So it was interesting.
Um, I'm not gonna say I was scared, almost- because I knew my best friend kind of knew everybody in the neighborhood.
And I had went to school  with a few of them, so I had knew a lot of people, but it was very different.
But it also made me appreciate  how I was brought up and where I came from and where I lived.
But it was fun going over there and being- like the ice cream truck- I could go to the ice cream truck and get whatever I wanted to or  the go go bands would come around their neighborhood and play.
And that was fun for me.
But my grandfather didn't see the fun in it, and so it wasn't like I could go over there all the time.
It was one of those things where it's, you can go, but it won't be  all the time.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-5.
Everything was on Capitol Hill.
So I did RD-SCHOOL-3.
I did RD-SCHOOL-2.
I did RD-SCHOOL-3.
But then,  I got put out of RD-SCHOOL-3 and that's when I had to go to my neighborhood school  which was RD-SCHOOL-2, and that's how I met my best friend.
So- So, um, one of the teachers-  She was a little  off the chain, and so we had got into it at one point.
And she told me like, I couldn't get on the computer or something, and I was just like, well I don't care.
I got five computers at home.
I'm not pressed to get on your computer.
And it ended up to  a back and forth thing.
And I got suspended  from school.
Well they actually put me out  RD-SCHOOL-2, so  I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I l-  When I left RD-SCHOOL-2 because I was so academically  excel in RD-SCHOOL-2,  um, RD-SCHOOL-3 had reopened,  and so I had to apply and all that stuff.
Even though I was in RD-SCHOOL-2, I wasn't a product of that school.
So I was always the one doing all my homework, getting good grades as opposed to everybody else around me like,  not doing anything.
So RD-SCHOOL-2 is in Southeast, and  there's the Woodland kids.
There's  Juna Vista Terrace kids.
It's the  Thirtieth Street kids.
It's just that  Naylor Gardens, that whole  area.
So it's like a neighborhood school.
It's not like a school, like, oh I'm sending my child there.
No.
It's a school that you don't want to go to.
I'm talking my grandfather and grandmother was in tears.
Yeah.
Bad.
Yeah.
It was bad.
Mm-hm.
Gangs, mm-hm.
Um- Not necessarily gang activities, but neighborhood beefs.
Oh.
Like,  if Woodland was beefing with another  area,  they would fight like after school and stuff like that.
No, no guns and stuff.
No.
Girls and boys.
Different groups, mm-hm.
No if they- If it was a neighborhood, it would be like- If the girls and boys from your neighborhood?
They together.
Like they walking together.
Like,  Girls, boys, it's the whole neighborhood, not- not by sex.
But no, but when I was  growing up the girl gangs were more popular,  so then we stopped talking about neighborhoods, and it become  girl gangs like Most Wanted, Shut 'Em Down,  that type of stuff.
No.
That was just  all over, like you could be from different places.
Different.
Yep, and it's probably ages.
Mm-hm.
But like most- When I was coming up, it was like Most Wanted, Shut 'Em Down.
Those type of things.
Not necessarily in the gang,  but um,   I knew  everything that was going on cause I had friends in all the different types of gangs.
I necessarily wasn't in it, but  my grandfather and the principal at my school thought that I was in a gang.
It was a hard time for my grandpa.
They're like, oh my gosh, I shouldn't have sent you here, because I became  into all the stuff that they was doing, not necessarily like the fighting and stuff but the fashion and stuff behind it.
So they thought it was gang affiliated, but it really wasn't.
So this was a time when the girls was wearing rubber bands around their  um, jeans.
And like, bandanas and stuff like that.
And so the principal- Of course, cause it was  me, and I guess she felt like I was different  from that.
I mean once that happened for me, she made it a point to contact my grandfather.
Like, RD-NAME-3 starting to go down the wrong path, and  you might wanna ch-.
But I really wasn't in a gang, it was just- it was cute.
Fashionable at the time, but I wasn't in no  gang.
No.
I was there seventh and eighth grade.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Completely different  because being at RD-SCHOOL-2, I was one who wanted to  do work, as opposed to everybody else not wanting to.
But then when I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, this coming from everybody that  wanted good for theirself, wanted different, wanted better.
So it was- w-  It was a academic  competition, so it's- a competition so to speak.
So I'm with everybody that wants to do work, that wants to do well as opposed to me doing work and walking around like, play fighting and  throwing paper and just threatening the teacher as opposed to RD-SCHOOL-3, they wasn't having that.
You had to go through an interview.
You had to go through a essay.
You had to go through a lot of stuff.
No, so the STEM part of RD-SCHOOL-3 just came about  um, after I graduated.
When I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, you got to pick between three concentrations.
You was either in Broadcast, IT,  and it was another one.
I did Broadcast.
Because Broadcast was more fun.
I think that because I was very detail oriented, I liked um, writing, so i- it became part of like script writing, filming, behind the camera, all that type of stuff.
Green.
Yellow.
Blue.
Think blue- Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
Green, yellow and blue.
Mm-hm.
English.
I like to write.
I like to read,  and so it was English.
See, I can't say a favorite book cause I'm more of the  black book type person.
Know like the the hood books.
Like um, so-  Coldest Winter Ever is a hood bo- but that was the type of books I read, so- so- so- it was like, Thug Life maybe.
Um,  it was just a few of those books that I liked, so like Zane books.
It had to be Addicted.
Cause it was just nice.
Coldest Winter Ever, it's great.
But it's funny because even though I liked those books it was nothing that I related to cause even though I was reading these books as I was younger, I wasn't really into the streets,  wasn't having sex, so I don't even know  why I liked it.
Like,  I didn't-   But you would think that- But it would th- But it would think that you- It would make you want to go out and do those things, and it didn't for me.
I think I waited til college until I started doing all that.
Uh-huh-huh.
RD-SCHOOL-8 in Ohio.
Oh I didn't know!
Well it is- I was there for four years!
Very different.
Uh-   Uh- RD-SCHOOL-3   So I knew I didn't want to stay in DC, even though my grandparents  begged me to stay in DC.
And so, um,  in Broadcast, I became friends with one of my friends Charity, who is now my sorority sister.
Um, her mom  went to RD-SCHOOL-3, and so like Dawn Dance was coming up.
And so Dawn Dance is a big thing at RD-SCHOOL-3, and she was like, I'm'a take you all to Dawn Dance so y'all can go visit RD-SCHOOL-3.
I'm like, okay, I'm so excited.
And by the time- this is like our eleventh grade year.
And so when we went to Dawn Dance, we didn't know- but once we got to Ohio, they was all, y'all can stay on campus really get the feel  of what it is.
So we stayed on campus like that whole weekend.
We got to go to all the parties, all the step shows  and all that stuff.
And so when I got there, it was a shock, because DC a city.
Out there it's no busses, it's no trains.
I'm talking about in the middle of nowhere- corn fields,  KKK, like,  it was-  it was off the chain.
But I loved it, and then since that RD-SCHOOL-3 is very small, and it was very family oriented.
And it's also a religious based  school, so I had got like a um-  a small faith based scholarship.
And so, I liked that religious aspect cause I was very  um,  into church, well church going  um, at that point in my life.
And so,  that's where I wanted to be, somewhere that was church affiliated, somewhere that was family orienated  and small.
I didn't want to go to a big school.
I didn't want to be a number.
And so-  I'm talking about all the classes in one building type small.
No.
Little.
Maybe no more than fifteen- Maybe no more than a thousand fifteen hundred.
But what was good for me is that Central State was right across the street.
So if I wanted extra people to go see and meet and if I wanted to  get other campus feel,  I could go right across the street to Central where a lot of people from DC  um, ended up going.
Then Wright State,  up the street.
If I wanted to get fancy, I could go to O State  and come out ??.
I liked my school.
No, I didn't drive, but all my friends, my sorority sisters, boyfriend.
Gamma Phi Delta Sorority.
It's a business and professional women sorority.
And so, I know a lot of people that like Divine Nine but for me,  when it came time for me to choose what sorority I wanted to  um, partake in,  Gamma Phi Delta was who was running the yard.
They were the ones really doing stuff for the youth.
So I said, it's n- not about the name, it's about what they're really doing on campus and in the community.
And so,  when I became a part of Gamma Phi Delta,  our line was twelve.
That was the biggest RD-SCHOOL-3 had seen  in awhile because  people wasn't really  doing other things, and so once I became, it was like, oh everybody wanted to be in Gamma.
Then I became president,  at the sorority,  and things like that.
So I kind of took it-  Uh, so that's who ran the yard up until I graduated.
So.
We did do step shows, but um,  we were cool with like, the Divine Nine, not so much the girls, um, but the guys  and some of the  female   We did parties, yep.
Mm-hm.
Mixes with the Qs, with the Sigmas.
I like Alphas.
Yes.
They just like,  it's weird.
I feel like they like the  businessmen in a suit, but they also like the  manly man, like, not the the- you know they got that street edge, but business mentality.
Qs just too nasty.
Sigma-   Aw, I run away from the Ques.
Yeah, they scare me.
Yeah.
I love the Iotas too.
They don't.
And it's crazy because um- What people fail to realize is that- And that's what we s- w-  We was aksed to be a part of the Divine Nine.
We deny it cause we twenty years younger than Iotas.
We was foun-  We was founded in nineteen forty three.
Iotas, I want to say nineteen sixty three.
No.
Yeah.
We down.
Right, and so my founders were a part of the Divine Nine, so that's why we didn't accept the invitation cause our founders were already a part of D Nine organizations.
And so, we did not.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I did g- Yes of course,  if not more, um,  I want to see if I can say this.
I pledged  ya- Yeah.
Membership intake process, and so I got the experience just as if anyone else did, and we got respect  from other Greek organizations.
That's what most sorority of girls, cause I feel like, it was a jealousy thing, like, who are they, think they come in and take over, though we did take over.
Like,  pro show- best pro sho any  body have seen on the campus.
And they came to us like,    where the campus got to vote like, which sorority do you like the most?
Who's doing the most?
I'm talking about we adopted floors.
We did stuff in the you- with the youth cause we work with underprivileged youth.
Like, although we business professional, our goal is like, to work with  underprivileged youth.
And so we did other stuff than just parties, as opposed to what I think uh, Divine Nine's like, uh, social.
Even though they do community stuff, most of it is social.
And we did social,  business, and community.
Mm-hm.
On campus it would have had to be  the Sigmas,  and it's this other um, Greek organization that's not Divine Nine, but New Zeta Epsilon.
They're Christian based.
Oh it- It wasn't necessarily youth group.
We would just go out in the community and get youth in the community.
Yeah.
Right, so we would host- So we- We might host, let's say- For Halloween every year we would do like, this um- this f- uh, Halloween feast.
And we'll go in the community like Walmart, pass out papers like the Gammas are having  The Autumn Festivities Festival, come here.
And then all the youth would start to build up that way,  like that.
Mm-hm.
So we would host it on campus, and we'll go in the community to get all the kids to come  on the college campus to our event.
No, not at all.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes, one.
Mass media and communications.
But I feel like I should have went with social work.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, my own mentoring program, work with the kids.
I feel like it's connected too cause I feel like, with dealing with that you have to learn how to communicate.
If you know- You have to learn how to be able to talk to people and stuff like that.
So I feel like it worked in a sense,  but I definitely thought I should have went into social work.
But I don't feel like I had to go into social work to be in social work.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Gap.
Yep, eleven years.
Um, I love my brother to death.
We very close, and so even though that age gap is there,  we're still very close.
So I'm talking about even though he's thirteen, if I'm at home, he will come and lay up under me, lay in my bed.
He got to kiss on me.
He got to hug on me.
He got to talk to me about everything that goes on in his life.
And then I kind of-  My mom said I think I'm his mama, and I'm the one that like,  got to know what school he going to, help register for school.
I got to know about all doctor's appointments, got to give my decision, no, I don't think he should go there.
he needs to go here.
And so  it's amazing.
I love my younger brother.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It f- It feel like more like sisters.
Mm-hm.
She'll say that,  but I would think she would feel like sisters too.
But it's just weird because when we in public,  and I call her Ma, she be like, oh, don't call me Ma in public.
We try and guess my age.
And we always laugh about it cause we be like,  That's not your daughter.
She be like, yes, that's my daughter.
But it's more like sisters and my grandma just like, my mother.
But it's weird but  I still have that respect for my mother like,  still gonna call her Ma.
She named me after her, it's so weird.
But  um-  So my mom- RD-NAME-3, now I'm RD-NAME-3.
And then I'm RD-NAME-2 and she's RD-NAME-2.
But yeah.
We have that mother daughter relationship, but it's more like sisters cause she's so young.
So like, a lot of stuff like, you can't really get away on her cause l- she- I think I have a good-  Mm.
A little bit youn- youn- Yep, cause my mom about to be forty next year.
So, Dom- older- Yep.
By two years, yep.
Mm-hm.
But that probably is why then-   Grown up with.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Huh.
Uh-huh.
The real big sister.
But RD-NAME-3 like a little- Yep.
Mm-hm.
I think so too.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
She's like the mama.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
One younger brother.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, like my uncles.
I don't have no aunts at all.
Two uncles.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
My mom is the baby.
So when I came, I became the baby.
So that's what I was telling you  So it became not about her and more so about me.
Yeah.
U- u- So,  um, I think it's three and five.
Three years and then five years.
Uh-huh.
But my grandma say all the time like, I was like, the godsend.
Like I'm the one that kind of got my uncles off the streets and stuff and stuff like that.
Yep.
We don't do Sunday dinner,  but we're very close.
Um,  the boys are like mama's boys,  and so our family is small.
So it's just my uncles,  my mom, and that's kind of it.
It was my grandparents- We got with the family, but we also did stuff just in our immediate family.
But we get together, like we have to see each other, like at least once out the week.
So we don't go like, weeks without seeing each other.
Not Sunday dinner almost, but if it's like a gathering at the house, fight parties, football season,  we like.
Dallas and Redskins.
Oh, no.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Everybody Redskin.
Well they did, but you know I was out of the country.
during Pacquiao Mayweather fight night.
I was on a cruise.
That's my twenty fifth birthday.
Mm-hm.
And so they did.
It was amazing.
It was a- It was a week long but I stayed in Miami a extra two days.
So I was gone like a total of nine days.
And so even though I've traveled- Like my grandparents made sure I traveled since the age of three-  Um, this was my first trip without  any  older people essentially.
It was just like, me and my boyfriend.
And so that was- It was a different experience.
It was great.
No, wasn't ratchet.
What about borderline ratchet- Maybe.
This is- Maybe just a little bit, but no, not really.
I had a good time.
It was amazing.
So you know cruises all you can eat, so I thought I put on a extra pound, so um, we did that- But then we also, when we went to  Antigua  we were kind of adventurous.
We kind of like, um, met up with a local.
He was our taxi driver,  but he took us to his neighborhood  to really show us.
No.
Yeah.
And we had a great time.
He cooked for- They cooked for us.
And it was t-  It was the weirdest most funnest thing ever.
I felt like- Once going into  his um,  neighborhood, it felt like home essentially because  even in like, here, DC, people always take you to the monument, they take you to the capitol, but you don't get to see like,  the neighborhood stuff.
But in Antigua, it's all, oh this stuff is nice, and you just think the whole place is just beautiful.
But then once he took us there, I'm just like, Oh!
So it is this type of parts  in Antigua.
But it was fun.
The fact that he like opened his home  to us, it was, aw, that's nice.
Food was great.
My boyfriend didn't want to share cause they kind of made us like one whole bowl,  and he kind of like, took over.
But it was good.
It was like rice and fish and like, you know, they make their juice theirself.
Like, from the fruit.
Yes, and it was delicious!
Yes.
Right there.
Right- They did it right there.
Yep.
But we shouldn't-  It was dangerous, I will admit  in a sense that you did- I didn't- We didn't know who he was.
We just kind of like, went to his neighborhood.
But it didn't happen.
Thank God.
But we had a great time.
And I felt like that was our best experience.
Like, we- If you talk about- Like, that was our best experience from the trip.
The- the- They're kids.
And so even though I should know better, I-  I just don't want  to put them out there like that, but  for me, yeah.
But I think-   But they went to somebody who stole something from them.
That's kind of different than us being in our taxi cab, and like, oh y'all want to go see da da da da da?
Yeah we did.
Mm- Yeah.
I d- Uh-huh.
All the time.
Yeah.
Right, I talked to- Cause I told 'em that- I told 'em not to go.
I told 'em to go to the police station.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Which was probably all Rhonice.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
N- N- No.
Rhonice is off the chain.
Off the chain.
Off the chain.
I really don't know cause I feel like she gonna get more freedom.
No.
So I feel like she's gonna do more.
She do a lot now, under scope, and had a lot of things that even like, somethings that we know that her mom don't know.
And so I feel like now when she get away,  she might- You don't want- It c- calms you down?
Yeah.
But I think I was that way around when I went to school.
But I think she'll do- I think she'll do fine.
I know she's nervous.
It's funny cause we just had this conversation over dinner last night.
She's kind of nervous um,  to make that transition.
She just like, hope she do well.
And- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So she should be fine, but I'm tryna get her to  get out of just DC, so like she-  Nothing wrong with her being in a group chat, but they- have like- the DMV  Linked-In group chat.
I'm like,  get to know all the other people too.
DMV They've met everybody from DC and Northern Virginia.
So like she want to room with somebody from DC?
No.
Get to know other people.
The world's bigger than DC.
Yeah!
So.
That's what- Oh.
So crazy.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Yes.
So it's crazy because  I've never been  into the touristy stuff.
Like, I probably never been- I've probably been outside the White House, but that was-  in my most recent years.
Um, don't go to the monument.
Don't hang out at all the museums and stuff like that.
No.
Probably just on field trips.
But  um,  when I wen- a- went away to school,  and like,  all of my friends was from like DC.
My boyfriend was from  Ohio.
Some of my friends from DC, but all my sorority sisters from different places.
So we would alternate like where we would go.
So when I would bring them here,  they got to know  DC outside of the monuminutes,  and they fell in love with it.
So it became, oh, I'm going to DC spring break, or I'm going to DC  for Christmas.
I'm going to DC for Thanksgiving.
And so, If they came here,  th-  Towards my freshman year it was  going to the go go and stuff like that.
So I took a few of them to the go go.
I had to make sure they all had Mumbo sauce.
And then DC and Chicago had this thing.
Like what's better Mumbo sauce or Mild sauce?
I would like take my Mumbo sauce up to Ohio  and stuff like that.
But coming here was go go,  Mumbo sauce.
I let them get the experience of the train.
And those things.
I mean I don't know.
I'm not gonna say I'm not a history person.
That type of stuff   it- it is- Mm-hm.
Not at all.
Would I do it now?
I will, but if I do it now, I want to do it more like a-  a romance .
Like, oh, let's go visit the monument, eat.
Let's-  Uh-huh.
Probably is.
Mm-hm.
Oh, oh.
Mm-hm.
Dang.
Okay.
My life together.
Okay.
Nam.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
I'm'a try it.
Really?
Probably not.
Mm-hm.
But I feel like- Yeah, so.
That touristy stuff, it just really- But it's crazy because when I go out of town, on a vacation, I want to see the-  the touristy stuff.
But I've also notice that it's way more to like,-then just the touristy stuff.
So when you say like, letting 'em know there's stuff outside of that.
Cause I think that sometimes  people just see that so-  What I'm referencing is to- when I went to Egypt-  you know when you think of Africa, like, you think like, poverty,  and when I went,  it was just the complete  opposite  from- like they had McDonalds delivered on motorcycles.
That's better than  our McDonalds.
But you don't see that stuff.
You just see like,  oh kids just gonna be begging you for stuff, and it wasn't like that at- like,  for me.
It was some parts, but it's not all bad.
I did ride the camel.
Climbed the pyramids.
Did the cruise down the Nile.
That was my sweet sixteen gift.
Really-  So, I'm not gonna say it like, it was just random sweet sixteen.
But um, RD-SCHOOL-3,  because it was a great school- Not taking away fro- RD-SCHOOL-3 was a great school, so they had  a program called Club Japan, where every year they would go to a different part  of ??.
And then Club Afrique,  where they would go to a different part of Africa.
When I decided to join Club Afrique, they was going to Egypt, and it was around my sixteenth  birthday.
So my granddad was like, that's going to be your sweet sixteen, like  what better way can you do that?
And so again,  I don't want to say people hated me, but   um,  like people had to like, fundraise and stuff to go.
Oh I'm sorry.
people had to fundraise and stuff to go.
To me that's what I felt like.
And then it was just like,  Oh you going to Egypt.
You got to have the  mo- the top of the line phone that's gonna work.
And this happened when razors had just came out, and it was like, Oh we're gonna get you the pink razor.
Cause I got to talk to you every day,  every minute.
And it became a thing to where everybody else didn't have a phone, so it was kind of like, they was paying me-  to use my phone, like per minute.
No, I feel like things have changed, and it's weird because  I feel like that's why-  I think that plays a part in me not driving and things like that because growing up my grandfather used to always say,  You'll never have to drive, ever in your life.
Like you're gonna be chauffeured everywhere you go.
Um,  I'm'a take you to school tomorrow.
Even high school, like, I couldn't get a job my senior year.
Like, he just didn't want that.
Like, your only job is  education.
So I feel like,  once he passed away in two thousand and eight,  it was just like,  Daddy wasn't gonna be around forever.
And I didn't think about that.
And so it became real life.
And so, my grandfather was definitely the bread winner,  and so um,  things changed.
I was always getting everything I wanted.
Even though my grandmother spoiled me, it wasn't like how my  dad did.
No and love, so like even our- Right, but she did.
She did, but  it was just more so him.
But my grandma did too.
It's just that now,  it became like- It's just- I'm more financially independent in a sense, but as far as like, living on my own?
No.
But I'm  about to move out on my own but like, my grandma- I still- No.
I live in- I live up the street now.
So I live with my grandma but I don't pay like, rent and stuff.
I just started paying my phone bill, that type of stuff.
So I'm getting  settled financially.
I know.
That's crazy.
Um-  Minnie?
But that's what I'm working towards, and so I'm tryna get it.
Like, that was my- I said for-, it's my twenty fifth birthday, that year it was going to be for me to get my own place, get on my own.
So I was like, okay.
Get off your phone- I got off her phone bill.
And you know that was a bit for me like,  sheesh.
This stuff ain't no joke.
Yeah.
But even like, college, like I didn't have to work.
Like, it was just call home.
Send me money.
Unintelligible I had two phones.
Yep.
I had a H- Ohio number and DC number.
Mm-hm.
And then- And then like- And then the- It seemed like T Mobile had better service there, but I wasn't ready to let go of like, DC.
Yeah.
I needed 'em.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
That's- But sometimes I feel like being in school you kind of get handed things.
And I think some people think it's a good thing, but I think it's like a bad thing too.
Because like, I became so like, into thinking that everything was supposed to happen- happen my way, and it even plays a role in my relationships.
Like you are really spoiled.
Like you really think that everything had to happen- You're like, that's not my way, it's just like- Anyway.
And then so when I met my boyfriend in Ohio, he kind of like, shift things like,  Well I might not can always be around.
You gonna have to learn how to do this, and do that, do this, do- So, he kind of told me like,  how to do this, how to do this.
Cause he was  independent.
Like he had to go out and get everything on his own, work.
It very- It really is.
Mm-hm.
You younger, he- Okay.
Okay.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Mm-mm.
Not gonna be handed to you.
Mm-mm.
And it made people hate me.
Even- People.
Cause I was- I don't feel like I was like- I'm always been like the compassionate type person, very people person,  but because of how my grandfather treated me- I'm not gonna say people envied it, but they really just didn't like me.
So like, if school lunch was like,  nasty or if my grandpa didn't want me to eat the school lunch, he would come like,  bring me like,  Chinese food.
Yeah.
Me too.
Th- Me too.
That's how it was for me too.
And so- And like, I would be the one that could leave out, go get my food from the truck.
Like, it was- it-  if people really hated it- And it's just so funny cause one guy  outside of school had came up to me and was like,  You know a girl mentioned to me that you get your food sent to- And I'm just like, why is a dead beat- And he went to a whole different school.
And another girl in my school was talking to me about him,  and we wasn't even friends necessarily, and I'm just like, that's weird.
Uh- it's not my fault.
Like,  heh- They was.
Oh, it's fine.
I- it's just fine.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
So you know go go, it stands from different age groups, so like I said, being that- my- my mom  and her friends, cause they were all younger of course-  they had their genre  of go go, like the bands they listened to.
Like Backyard, Red Essence, EU,  Sugar Bears  and stuff like that.
So I was introduced  to it at that point,  and then once I started going to it became like fast paced and  not as slow as theirs was.
And so,  just being in school- So like in school, people started go go bands.
Like, it was a go go band in RD-SCHOOL-3, and then it became to like, oh, come see us  at this place.
Come see us at that place.
Okay.
And then it became to me being interested in all the other bands, so I was like,  at the go go.
Mm-hm.
Like-  Yep.
Sing.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Come up with a name.
Mm-hm.
TCB.
Cause they older, but they got that  young feel.
They just- Mm-hm.
It was weird because I don't like being hot.
I really hate being hot, and I didn't think about no place could be so packed.
And you're like,  so close to each other.
I'm talking about like,  you really don't want to dress dress up because people gonna step on your shoes.
You have to be ready for that.
But for me it was just being packed- But it was so fun.
Like, I'm dancing but then on- once you leave, you're like drenched.
Like,  but it was amazing.
I- What I did- What I di- di- didn't like about the go gos back then was like, of course the neighborhood stuff.
So once the go go bands started calling all the neighborhoods,  they like rowdy.
Like, they jumping up jumping up jumping up.
Like,  I didn't like that part of it, but  the music in itself.
Uh-huh.
That's when I was going to the um, DC Tunnel.
Off of uh, think- I want to say Queens Chapel Road.
You know where Stadium is?
It's over- It's over there.
It was in the back, like a little white house.
Mm-hm.
And then I was doing the Le Pearl, the Mad Chef.
That's a largo.
Mm-hm.
Then the Market Lounge off of Florida Avenue.
Uh, I went to one this year.
Yeah.
But it's different now, and I'm not into the club scene no more.
But I had my moments when I wanted let my hair down and I called it like, be ratchet.
And so like-   Uh-  Oh, probably-  When did we go?
I want to say Feb-  no March.
Me and one of my close friends went.
I met her in middle school.
Mm-hm.
My circle of friends it's the Fab Five.
Um, it's five friends.
I told you one passed away,  so it was four of us now, but that's who-  that's my circle.
S- kind of sort of.
So I'm the link, so- Well I'm not- I'm not the link, and I wasn't the link.
I'm the one that pull everybody  together so to speak.
So it was me and my best friend RD-NAME-2.
We've known each other since seventh grade.
And then,   it's not funny but  I was-  Towards my ninth grade year I became a part of a group called Keep it Tight  in church which is not to have sex until your married, which is how I met my friend Jelly.
Okay.
Yes, her real name is RD-NAME-3.
We call her RD-NAME-2.
And so,  I met RD-NAME-2 ninth grade.
RD-NAME-2,  the one that passed away is who I've known since pre K.
And then we just met RD-NAME-2, I want to say three years ago through my best friend RD-NAME-2.
And so m- It was  AndRD-NAME-2 birthday- I started a mentoring program, so these are people that wanted to be mentors-  So I introduced them to each other, even though I had other mentors that had applied we all went to dinner together.
And then that's how we formed the Fab Five.
Ba- For three years.
RD-NAME-2.
The one I've known since pre K.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Talk about it in what sense?
Like our friendship?
How it happened?
How it affected me?
All that type of stuff.
So me and Brittany met each other in pre-K.
My grandfather- I guess  his occupation.
My grandfather was a DC fire fighter.
Once he retired he became a fire inspector.
And so, RD-NAME-2 grandma worked on the fire department.
And so, once they knew that their grandkids was going to the same school.
So it was all, y'all have to go see each other!
And so me and RD-NAME-2 began-  Our every Friday ritual was to go to McDonald's and get a fish sandwich.
This was every Friday.
And she would spend the night  over my house.
And our communication  went all the way up  until high school  cause we went to the RD-SCHOOL-4.
I went to a different high school than she did  but then college, we kind of  came back in contact.
And then she joined my ??
program,  after I had graduated.
And so, um  when the Fab Five started it became a every weekend thing.
Like, we had to do something every weekend.
We was going out of town.
We was big on birthdays.
We do it real big for each other's birthday.
And so um,    in December of two thousand and thirteen,  let me rewind.
Um,  we all supposed to go on a cruise for Drea's twenty fifth birthday.
And Brittany had paid her money.
We had all paid our money.
And then randomly, Brittany was like,  I'm not gonna be able to go.
She was like, um,  I got something to do  in December.
of what she had to do.
Uh, she was just like, I know I'm'a have something to do.
So I have to pull out.
So- But we never paid no attention to it.
We were just like,  Okay.
So, December seventh, when we got the phone call- When we got the phone call, to came to us as if  her sister had passed away.
And so  um,  I called the Fab,  and I'm like, y'all we need to go check on Brittany.
I heard that her sister passed away, and we just need to go and be there for her.
We get to Brittany house, and um,  her brother like,  Y'all here to see Brittany?
We like, yeah.
No!
On our way to- Somebody had called us back, and was like, well you know it was both of 'em.
So at this point, like, our minds just all over the place.
So then when we get to her house, her brother like, well did you want to see Brittany?
Y'all here to see Brittany?
So at this time, we feel relief- Still sad that her sister passed, but we feel relief cause he like, y'all want to see Brittany?
Okay, go upstairs.
So we like,   Thank God.
Dodged that bullet.
We get upstairs,  and her grandmother come to the door,  and she was like, hey y'all.
We like, hey, Miss RD-NAME-1.
And she's like, Brittany not here.
So we like, okay, maybe she at the hospital  for RD-NAME-2.
And so she looked  different.
And so,  we c- Jelly was just like, Miss RD-NAME-1 are you sure?
Cause we heard some things.
And so she called us into her living room,  and she told us that it was actually Brittany that had passed instead of the sister.
I immediately  left the house.
Um,  call my grandma and my mom.
They had got there  in probably less than ten minutes.
And so we were all very  over r- hysterical.
And my grandmother didn't know what to do.
She said, but I know somebody that can.
She took us to church.
I'm talking about like, we in pajamas.
Like,  but she didn't know what else to do with us, so they prayed over us in church.
And it's funny, that's how I Ms.
RD-NAME-1  Weird.
And it wasn't i-  When I realized I hadn't knew her til I came here, she's like,  You were the group that came to the church and we prayed over.
Like that.
And so um,   it really took a toll on us because RD-NAME-2 was a part of our everyday routine.
Group chat, hanging out,  and so it was hard.
And so,  once the cruise- So we said, maybe RD-NAME-2 kind of knew.
Something was gonna happen because the week before she passed, she made individual dates with all of us.
And those dates was like, how much she loved us, how much she cared about us.
Like,  just that one on one that she wanted with each  member  of the Fab.
And it was the weirdest thing ever.
And then that weekend  before, we had like a big pow wow sleepover.
Like, getting our feelings out with stuff we wanted to do, or stuff like that.
And she was kind of like- I'm not gonna say she was reserved, but she was like,  had like a calm  space, and we was like,  wow.
And then our last conversation with RD-NAME-2 was about cops, like,  sh- how she liked people in uniform, but it had to be a PG cop.
And so when she died, I'm just like- She was in PG, cops, all these things.
I'm like, Brittany kind of- I feel like she knew  what was going on.
But even still, it plays  a big part in our lives.
And I think I was- I was in a good space until Thursday,  until the trial when I was asked to speak.
I feel like I was really at a good space in my life,  and I feel like,  reopening that, has put me at a set back in a sense that, I didn't want to see how she died.
And so the fact that video has to keep like,  replaying,  and I really had to see a psychiatrist on Wednesday.
I don't.
It's on the news.
It's not in my phone.
I didn't save it to my phone.
It's like, on a website of the news.
Yeah I don't look at it.
Like even if I show people like, I won't look at it.
But- It was horrific.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I knew it wasn't crazy.
It's just, it's a lot to deal with, and so like I tell people all the time- She was young!
Yeah.
And so, losing my grandfather- It was hard.
Of course it was hard, but I also felt like he got to live his life.
So when I think about my best friend, it's just like- She was working on her Masters.
She would have been  finished her Masters.
She would- She had just got the  position she wanted in HR for the Secret Service.
No kids.
She was my right hand in my mentoring programs.
So it was just like-  All the stuff was just like, damn.
Did she have to go out like that?
Like did it have to be so- Did she have to lose half of her face?
Did she really have to  go out like that?
Just getting up because her sisters call her like, can you come and get us?
And so that plays another part of me wanting to drive because RD-NAME-2 had just started driving.
That accident was probably like RD-NAME-2 probably like, tenth time ever driving.
I know it wasn't her fault, but that kind of like, Shook me u- Yeah, like- So I was at that point where RD-NAME-2 was like, oh RD-NAME-3, I did it, you know what I'm saying?
Now I'm not the last one not to have my license.
You should be next.
You should go.
I'm like, oh, I'm going.
I'm going.
I'm going.
And then when that happened, I'm like, I'm good.
So like even now,  getting the car, it's not- it's not good for me.
I'm talking about like, if a  bus coming right here, I'm like holding on to the rail.
I'm like,  real shook up.
It's real bad.
I'd rather do public transportation.
But it's weird  because our friend Jelly is in a Car Club.
And so I'm around them.
They speed.
They do all types of stuff they want to do.
And I be okay with it.
It- it-  it's weird.
It's just but  Yeah.
I- I- different.
Mm-hm.
Right.
It's the weirdest thing ever.
Yes m- Right.
Mm-hm.
Personal- Mm-hm.
tivity.
Yeah that probably is.
Bus- Something to  Yeah that probably is.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
But I need to.
I can't be on the train forever.
Yeah.
But I like to get up and go too.
And the train sometimes be in the way.
So that's something I'm working on, so  I'm been praying about it.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.