Hey my name RD-NAME-2, AKA RD-NAME-3 Yeah.
You know, the streets gave me that name, you know what I'm saying?
Coming up in the streets, you know, the neighborhood, you know, that's the neighborhood we was from.
So we called ourselves the RD-NAME-3 so I just adopted the name RD-NAME-3.
I'm actually from the Maryland side, I'm more- I'm from the line man, you know, like New Hampshire Avenue, I've been all around the city though.
And on like-  PG all around the side of PG and Maryland so you know, Northeast, Uptown.
You know what I'm saying, Hyattsville.
Seat Pleasant, Capitol Heights.
All my life.
Mm-hm.
I went to a Maryland school, matter of fact, I went to all Maryland schools but I lived in DC, you know what I'm saying?
Because my folks lived in DC but I actually lived with-  with like cousins and shit, I never really lived with my mother.
You know what I'm saying?
I grew up I was like a bounce around baby, my mother couldn't take care of me so my cousins and-  and shit did so I bounced around from one cousin to another cousin to a aunt- Yeah.
Damn near half my life like you know, like- Yeah.
Shit, I'm thirty now, so about like fifteen years.
Yeah.
Yes man that's one of the- man that's one of the- I love home, man, nothing like home.
That's one of the best places ever.
You know when you go out of town, you come back and you like, damn - you have fun out of town but you know when you hit the bridge and you know- you know you see home, you like, shit!
Woo woo!
Glad I'm back baby.
Even though I had fun but you know I had to get home, baby.
That's how it make you feel, man.
Ain't nothing like it, matter of fact, you know how you always wanna go somewhere but I don't-  I don't- I don't see myself living-  really living nowhere else.
You know-  like you know Cali's on my bucket list, I wanna go to Cali.
I'd spend a year or two in Cali.
But I don't  see myself living  anywhere else, I- matter of fact, I'm glad I'm from DC and nowhere else.
Explain it?
Just our swag,  you know what I'm saying?
The way we- we- we- come about shit, our- our- our go go-  the go go scene, how we originated that.
You know what I'm saying?
The way we dress, we don't do anything- You know how you go to another city  and you could honestly- you could honestly  compare another city to another city?
Like you go to Baltimore you be like, man these niggas act like Philly's niggas, or these niggas act like they from New York or something.
You go to New York, be like, these niggas act like they from Jersey or something.
When you come to DC,  only thing you could compare us to is Maryland, and- and that's like,  you can't help but to do that.
Cause we're kind of like the same thing.
You can't even compare us to Virginia niggas.
You know what I'm saying?
Only thing you can compare us to, Maryland niggas, and the only part of Maryland that you can compare  a DC nigga to is PG, Maryland.
And that's cause we all on the line, you know what I'm saying?
And we mix together.
You know what I'm saying?
If you- if a nigga come from PG he going to DC, if a nigga going to D- coming from DC, he going to PG.
You know what I'm saying?
We migrate a little further into Maryland but just a teeny bit.
You really can't get no DC nigga in Rockville.
Or- You know what I'm saying?
Or Silver Spring, but you could on the- on the tip of Silver Spring that's because that's where the line stop at.
But you know what I'm saying?
You can't really get- you know what I'm s- you can't compare no DC nigga to anybody else, we don't dress like we from Baltimore, we don't dress like we from Philly.
We don't- you know what I'm saying?
We don't do none of that shit, it's our-  our shit.
We wear the Foamposites and shit, we wear the New Balance and-  You know what I'm saying?
We got our own s- we put our own shit together.
Go go is something that originated in Washington DC, we could thank the- the godfather of go go for that, Mr.
Chuck Brown.
You know what I'm saying?
We- we- we- we just- we could thank EU, we could thank Lil Benny,  we could thank- what is that, Trouble Funk?
You know what I'm saying, we could thank all the old heads for that.
You know what I'm saying, mainly Mr.
Chuck Brown, the originator of the go go scene.
Go go is a- is a- is a form of music that originated in Washington DC  that nobody else really can relate to.
You got people that'll like it but you go anywhere else-  only us, only DC niggas, DC and- and- and m- PG, Maryland niggas  really feel go go.
Yeah, bands, go go bands.
The difference in the bands is- Like we got Backyard-  The older ones you got Chuck, you got EU, you got what, uh- uh, Rare Essence,  Pure Elegance,  you know what I'm saying?
You got- you got- Yeah you- you- you- you- yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, well you l- suppose- any band you go and see you pretty much gonna get a different feel and a different vibe.
Cause you know, different people  from different areas- bands are normally like, from different areas, you know what I'm saying?
And you- you got a couple bands that's from the same area but you know like, you say you got  Northeast Groovers.
Them niggas is really from- from- from Maryland.
You know what I'm saying?
Them niggas is from Maryland.
You go to a Groovers- a- a- a Groovers um, show,  you know what I'm saying?
It's like a- it's like a- a- a straight party.
The feel is- is like a lot, it- it's- it's-  they- it's straight crankage, they definitely crank.
The word crank means-  Cause I see you looking at me.
The word crank means they- they- they tight, they sound good.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah okay, tight.
Tight and crank mean it's- well,  tight means something is- is- they're both pretty much the- the same definition, almost the same definition.
So well tight is like, something that looks good.
It's something that looks good,  sound good,  feel good, you could use that in all- all types of those definition.
Crank  is like  towards music.
It's like, man that joint crank.
It's something that sounds good, you like the way it sound.
You know what I'm saying?
It crank.
To you, yeah, it's cranking.
Like, man that shit cranking like, you- Oh aight, you know you like the rock-n-roll.
If a country song crank, you like, oh this joint cranking like shit.
Like, oh okay, it's- it's- it's cranking.
You like it, you know what I'm saying?
Something you like.
So that's a word  instead of saying I- you know, it's- it sounds good, you be like, it's cranking.
My earlie- my- my- my- Oh man, aight.
You taking 'em back.
I- well  I can't r- Man, well I would- I would have to say Backyard Band.
Cause I- I- I grew up off of- I- I took to the Backyard Band before I actually started really expanding my horizons with the go go scene.
So the first song I would have to say would be-  See you wouldn't know if I told- I'm'a say one you know, um-  I guess the Tupac song, cause you know, go go is like a reenactment of  s- industry songs.
They might not be a r-   go go got- is like a reenactment of in- they have they own songs too that they make, but it's majority of like-  like, what's the word I'm looking for?
Covers of industry songs.
They'll take that song and make it into a go go version with a go go beat, with a go go sound.
Sometimes it do.
Sometimes it- you know, you might be like, aight Rihanna did it.
It all depends on the band.
How good they do they craft.
And how good they do they music, how they put the twist to it.
You know, so a lot of times it does sound better.
You know what I'm saying?
A lot of times you be like, well they shouldn't have did that one, you know they- you know, but  most times it does sound better.
Then they put on neighborhoods, you know, everybody go and support they neighborhood.
So you go to a go go scene,  you go to a concert,  go go might say your neighborhood, you know what I'm saying?
The band might say your neighborhood.
Like, oh, uh, six forty, you know what I'm saying?
Niggas from six forty.
Niggas might be like, oh Capitol Heights, might throw your city out there.
Oh, Capitol Heights,  you know what I'm saying?
So now you really pumped, cause now you feel,  uh,  whatever ?
important, singled out, like, you know what I'm saying.
Like, oh I ain't know who we are in here, like, you know what I'm saying.
Because it's a- because it's a DC thing.
It's a DC thing.
Just like club music ain't everywhere, just like,  you know, um,  what's that,  retro music or whatever it is.
Everybody just can't get with it.
You know what I'm saying, every- everything ain't for everybody.
So, that's just why that is.
You know, you go- some peop- in cert- North Carolina, it's everywhere,  it's just that the mass hasn't  taken to it.
Like, old people don't want- they think you banging on pots and pans and  you know what I'm saying.
Older people that's from  other areas  can't get with it, but  just like we can't get with house music, cause we not from Baltimore.
You know what I'm saying, so we listen to that shit,  it might be certain things that we do like, certain songs, like, oh aight I can- I can get with this,  with the whole- as the whole genre,  we can't really get with it.
We don't wanna hear that shit.
So I wouldn't suppose anybody else would really wanna hear.
We love it, we love this shit to death,  you know what I'm saying.
So, you know, that's just how that is.
Yeah I actually have.
Man, I actually- Well, when I was younger when we first started I was about- I was about like, thirteen, fourteen,  seventh- seventh, eighth grade, ninth grade.
You know what I'm saying, we started a band called Young Influence Band.
You know what I'm saying, I used to- I used to be the singer in that band.
I went from like the drummer playing the drum,  but then they was like, aight well, we won't put you- But I used to  can rap at the same time, rap and sing.
So they used to be like, aight well we gonna put you- You know, I just migrated to the second mic.
Cause you got different mics.
You got the lead mic person who put everybody on and  really hold the show down.
Then you got the person who sing the songs, then you got maybe a girl who sing songs.
Then you got the second mic, that's the nigga who rap and shit.
Then you got niggas who- You know what I'm saying, like that.
It's a band.
So you fall into your position.
But keep it straight.
Oh,  aw, we was- we was actually good but we didn't have no- no like-  we didn't have everything that we needed.
We didn't- we ain't had no money at the time, we just was a bad neighborhood band.
You know what I'm saying, we- we- we- we, you know- And then it was so much- it's so much competition  at that time.
In the go go scene, you know what I'm saying,  you really had to know somebody  to- you know, t- to really  look after you.
It's like being a rapper.
You ain't gonna really come up until you find that person that's gonna promote you, you need you a promoter.
And we kids at this time.
So, we- maybe we was like nineteen, twenty we'd have did better.
Cause we'd have been able to really get into clubs,  you know what I'm saying, that's- that can drink and everything.
So just by us being kids- You know, the go go scene ain't like the- the rap scene.
You really-  people don't sign you, you really earn your money from the bottom, from the dirt.
You know what I'm saying, you gotta build your crowd, you gotta-  You know,  things like that.
I was the singer.
I was the singer and the rapper.
No that- that was at the time.
I ain't no singer now.
That's when I was- that's when my voice was- was soft and- and- and young, when I was really- You know, you know, I ain't no singer now.
Uh, I r- I really can't, I mean, not off the top.
Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, let me think, let me think.
I'm thir- I'm thirty-one.
Today.
You mean like fifteen years ago?
Twenty years ago?
Nah, it was- it was- it was- nah, it w- it was probably like- Nah it wasn't nothing like that, man.
We- it w- I'm trying to think.
I can't think off my hand of who was really popping at the time.
But, you know, singers, I would guess it was probably like some Ginuwine, or- or- or- or Yeah, we were like that.
You know, I'm in that era, you know what I'm saying.
Probably like Tank.
Yeah, somebody like that.
All them type people.
Rappers, Or, you know, SisQo, Dru Hill, you know what I'm saying.
It was people like that,  you know.
We had- matter- when- when one of my friends had-  they sister used to throw shows and shit.
So,  she used to throw parties matter of fact, for kids, for the youth where kids could stay out of trouble and shit.
So in different little events she might find like little  halls or whatever,  we would- we would play there.
You know what I'm saying, like I said we were too young to get in clubs at the time.
We was only like, thirteen, fourteen at the time The oldest person in the band probably was like nineteen.
It probably was only one or two of them.
The rest of us was like ninth graders, eighth graders, ninth graders.
So we wasn't into like- We couldn't get into the La Fontaine Bleue,  we couldn't get into Cousteau's, you know what I'm saying, we couldn't get in nowhere where they was selling liquor and shit.
Only thing we could do was have fun with the shit and stay out of trouble.
You know what I'm saying, get on our parents' nerves by banging, making all the noise in the house and shit.
You know what I'm saying, but long- they usually- my mo- my- my- uh, my friend mother was like, least they ain't in them streets.
You know what I'm saying, we used to get our guitars, get our keyboards, drum sets and all that shit.
Put up the money, you know what I'm saying, whatever little money we could find we'll put up.
You know, a lot of- lot of us had- had this shit already.
Like my mans had drum sets, congos,  cause their peoples used to play in bands or they fathers might have instruments.
All then we did was put the shit together.
You know what I'm saying, when- well, the extra shit that we needed like electricity and all of that shit, the  oh you know, the plug-ins, the mics and all that shit.
we  created our own little band.
And that's when-  I think if you from DC  at-  at that- a- and- and at least about-  from in the nineties  at least up until ninety-eight,  you had you a band.
You participated in or at least wanted to play in a go go band.
That's j- that's just- I don't care if you ain't do nothing but bang on buckets, pots, pans, whatever the fuck you did, you- you- you wanted to participate  or try to get you a go go band.
You- that's just- it was- if you from Washington DC area,  or- or Maryland, or the PG side of Maryland,  you participated and you stay out of trouble for  at least two, three years  of trying to get you a go go band.
Yeah  he said that's that.
Yeah, yeah.
he said well I really couldn't play for real.
Yeah, you know, shit, tell the- hey if a nigga see a pair of congos he gonna-  he gonna lick his fingers and try to do something.
You know what I'm saying, like oh I could play a little something.
Yeah man, that's- ain't nothing like that in Washington DC.
Oh, spots, we got- uh, uh, uh, we got China Sub, that's over there by the Ruff N Ready.
You know what I'm saying, you wanted like- like carry outs Nah that's actually in the Maryland side of, um- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You got Johnny- You got Johnny Boy's, everybo- I- I- I- I- I really didn't care for Johnny Boy's but the people that's older than me'll tell you, Johnny Boy's was lit, it's- it's- it's real live.
The shit, you know what I'm saying.
You got, uh,  Johnny Boy's,  you got, uh-    Let me see, what else uh a hot spot that everybody would wanna go to that- you know, that people love  in Washington DC?
You got- you got carry outs, you got this one little carry out on, um- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, it ain't really too much in DC that's- unless you go like downtown.
That we don't have really too many  restaurants that people- that you will spend money on.
DC is like the-  the city unless you j- jump to like downtown or somewhere  where the white people- where they- you know what I'm saying, where they spend the money at.
Oh, from like- from-  from like,  five to about- Yeah, to about sixteen, seventeen.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They grew up, you know, like- Well, see my parents is- was all over the place.
Like I never stayed with my father, like just like I said I never stayed with my mother.
But I know my mother bounced around from place to place to place to place.
Yeah we definitely do.
Nah I don't.
Not at the moment, I don't- I mean, this really ain't a tradition, maybe- maybe the Sunday dinners, you know what I'm saying, or something.
Or just- just sticking- just having the family stick together.
That's about the best tradition I can think of.
Cause no matter what the family went through-  Or the- the k- t- the kids know each other, we know who our cousins are, we know who our aunts are, you know what I'm saying.
When it's time for a function, when it's time for parties or functions,  we all can get together, you know what I'm saying.
It's, you know, with no problem.
You know, some people got  drama in the family, and they- they can't go this place, they don't wanna go this place cause  such and such.
They might not like they aunt, or they might not like they cousin.
See, we have that, but- but- what family don't?
But for the majority part,  we all can really get together, have a good time.
At the drop of a dime, all we gotta do is mention,  something is going down, and something is about to happen,  and then everybody on social media, everybody is like, this is going down at  such and such house,  be there or be square.
Yeah.
That simple.
Next thing you know, you got a whole house full of people, man having fun.
Kids, grandkids,  everybody.
Well, um,    my mother throws a good party.
When she mentions like, it's her birthday or she mentions like, uh, it's  Christmas time, or-  So  you know, Aunt RD-NAME-2 as you know there we going over Aunt RD-NAME-2 house, you know what I'm saying.
She throws a good one.
I have a cousin named RD-NAME-3, he throws a good party.
If he- if he mention it's going down at his house, Everybody there, everybody.
You know, it's like all the drama stops, all the beefing.
If we- if they was- if two aunties was fighting the other day, well, today,  we gonna  put that to the side and after the party then they go back to they drama, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying.
Other than that, yeah, man.
I heard you mention like mumbo sauce  earlier.
Mum- mum- mumbo sauce is another creation from- from- from the Washington DC area.
I d- well I can't tell you what the recipe is but  I can tell you it's some good shit.
Can tell you can't every- can't every- can't everybody make it.
I don't know, a mixture of barbecue sauce and- yeah, mixture of barbecue sauce, ketchup, some honey sauce, whatever the fuck is in it,  I don't- and a little splash of magic, I don't know what the fuck is in it, but it's some good shit.
It go on pretty much everything.
Not every everything, but it- it go on some chickens, your french fries,  you know what I'm- shit- shit like that, you know what I'm saying.
Mumbo sauce is a creation from Washington DC.
We the only people that really have it, you might could have some imitation mumbo sauce out there.
It's a lot of imitation shit,  but you only could come to DC and get the real  deal.
Just like you said, people say you only could go to Philly and get the good cheesesteak.
You only could come to DC and get  good mumbo sauce.
You know what I'm saying, certain people can't- certain people swear on the shit, they can't eat  carry out  without the mumbo sauce.
You know what I'm saying, like some- I'm a- see, I'm a neat guy, so I like my shit plain, I like to  have my mumbo sauce on the side.
You might s- have one person open they plate,  the whole fucking plate is filled with mumbo sauce and shit like, where the fuck the chicken and shit at?
It's under the mumbo sauce.
Like, oh aight, you know.
It's only certain spots that- that really got some good mumbo sauce, though.
Mumbo sauce.
Yeah, kind of so, kind of so.
Now, when- like back in the day when mumbo sauce first came out, I guess like in your early nineties,  you know, I- shit I can't really tell you about the eighties, I was only,  what, five at the time,  you know what I'm saying, til it jumped into the nineties.
So, but about the early nineties,   I guess all mumbo sauce was pretty much the same until it caught on.
Til like, aight well, these people- people like this shit.
So now everybody start trying to  imitate and make mumbo sauce,  you know what I'm saying.
Everybody- I really- I- I haven't, I haven't.
I'm quite sure people have.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Barbecue sauce, ketchup, uh,  Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm quite sure people have.
People think they know what's going on, some people probably came up with some good shit, but ain't nothing like- Mumbo sauce gotta be nice and  thick.
You know what I'm saying, and with a good tang to it.
Some people shit be watery.
You go tos  a restaurant, that shit watery, you don't even want the mumbo sauce, like- but  you go to the right restaurant,  in the right area,   and you get you some good mumbo sauce.
Oh, uh, well, like you said, you know,  l- uh, like bumping, like you say the word bumping.
That was a old slang back in the day like, man that shit bumping.
Bumping mean good.
When something was good, like, you know, the food was good, like, you know, the food was good, shit was bumping.
Like, you know,  lick your fingers,  You know, like  that shit was bumping, Mo.
Mo, like this is a new word, Mo.
Like we use the word Mo a lot.
You know, Mo is just I guess like you would say a New York nigga would say yo.
You know what I'm saying, or- or somebody would say, yo like, nah yo we ain't even doing that.
So we was like, nah, Mo.
It ain't even gonna go down like that, Mo, you know what I'm saying.
You know,  slipping, like, man these niggas slipping.
You know, slipping mean  somebody that's not paying attention.
Or it's- it- slipping and sleeping is pretty much the same thing, when you not on your toes.
You not on your P's and Q's.
You know what I'm saying, when you not paying attention to your surroundings and shit, you know.
Slipping.
like when you not  paying attention.
Like these niggas are slipping right now.
These- And why would I say that?
Cause they not paying attention to us, we could just walk up on these niggas if we wanted to.
And they wouldn't even know that we there until we're there,  actually there.
You know what I'm saying, you supposed to be able to see a nigga coming from down the street.
If you don't see me until I'm right in your face, then you was just slipping.
Y- exactly, you know what I'm saying, exactly.
You know what I'm saying.
Like you- Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
You know, you might be out there selling drugs or what have you, the police might ride up on you, you don't see 'em, next thing you know they chasing you down, you was slipping.
Like, nah they caught you slipping, Mo.
Yeah, today's words is like, Mo, um, I u- I use blow cheese.
Blow cheese.
Like I got that blow cheese, Mo.
Blow cheese mean  money,  you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, I got money to blow like, man I pull out a- nah like nigga I call my- nah like nigga I got that blow cheese, cuz.
You know what I'm saying,  like- like- like- That's the first- Yeah, that's a- that's a- that's a- that's a- that's a slang- you know, terminology that I've  kind of like-  I didn't even create it cause I heard it myself,  but it- that didn't really catch on a lot.
But I use it.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, like I got some blow cheese on me.
Um,    uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,  let me think, what else, what else?
Shit I have to really be talking to,  you know what I'm saying.
Aight well, this is some RD-NAME-3 terminology.
This is something me and my little cousins use.
It's- and we the only ones that use it cause we  wanna come out with our rap label and it's called RD-WORK-3,  RD-WORK-3 entertainment.
You know what I'm saying, this is  what we do, this is  our stamp,  you know what I'm saying.
So we might be like,  where the blams at?
I might come in and be like, hey where the blam- you know where the blams at?
The blams mean-  or blimmy,  means female.
Blimmy or blam means f- it could be used as female.
Like, man it's like three blimmys over there, we about to go holler at the blimmys, you know what I'm saying.
You know what I'm saying, Like, shit where the blams at?
You know what I'm saying, like shit the blams around the corner,  they say it's a party tonight is you going?
Like, yeah how many blams gonna be there?
hal- half the party?
Like, oh aight we out there, we in there then, you know what I'm saying?
You know, sclusy like, sclusy.
Sclusy means that's-  sclusy also- that's a new form of word for  tight  or- or- or- or,  you know, like- Yeah, or something that you like.
So I might be like, man, uh,  man, like- like- like- t- the jacket you got on, man, now that joint sclusy as shit, where the fuck you get that joint from?
You know what I'm saying.
I mean, it- it- it could, it could, it could be like- you know what I'm saying, like, man that joint sclusy son.
See, but that's only something we use, if I use that  outside of this- you know, or outside of our s- little circle, wouldn't nobody know what we talking about.
But then, it'll eventually- yeah, it- they will catch on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
You know what I'm saying, females got a lot of terminology, too.
I can't really speak on to the females,  but you will have to talk to them.
Cause they real- Nah I just know they be like, girl love-, you know how they phrase sh- phrase words.
They be like,  uh, you know, just like- they talk like we do too.
You know some will be like, nah, Bob,  like I ain't going around there, Bob.
You know, Bob is like,  just another terminology.
It ain't nobody's name, it ain't nothing it's just like-  like-  like, I ain't going around there, Bob.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, I ain't fucking with you, Bob, you know what I'm saying.
Pretty much, pretty much.
Yeah, they might be like, boy,  like, you know what I'm saying, I got little cousins that be like, nah boy.
Just the way they say it like, boy  I ain't fucking with you.
You know what I'm saying.
You know, DC is real  animated with our shit.
We- we- and that's another thing, I think we have the most slang  other than like, New York niggas.
You know what I'm saying, we have  the most-  Like if you was from another city, you come to DC or Maryland,  you wouldn't know what the fuck a nigga was talking about.
You know what I'm saying, like what the fuck is y'all talking about, Mo?
Like, what the fuck?
Who the fuck is Mo?
What- w- who the fuck is Bob?
Like, you know what I'm saying, like- like how we call cigarettes jacks.
Everybody else call 'em something different.
Baltimore they might call it a fug.
New York-  A fug, yeah, fug.
I- yeah.
They might, let me get a fug, yo.
Let me get a fug, yo.
Like, what the fuck is a fug?
Like it's a cigarette.
You know what I'm saying, New York niggas, alright, let me get a loosey.
You know what I'm saying, a loosey like, aight, yeah a loose cigarette, like let me get a loosey.
We say jacks.
I don't know where the fuck jack came from,  it caught on, and we been using it ever since.
I'm about to go get a pack of jacks.
So, nigga I'm like, oh aight.
Yeah, yeah  shit I'm gonna get some jacks.
Yeah though.
I actually work in the meat department at- at- at- at a- at a Giant food store right now, at this point in time right now that's actually how I make my in-  my money.
You know.
Nah, nah, nah, never went to college.
Graduated high school, you know, that's about as far- as far as, you know, I went.
You know,  thought about getting a couple trades or whatever, but just haven't done that yet.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I was thinking about- I would- see, I haven't- I haven't really- really narrowed it down yet.
I actually wanna write a series of book or a couple of books.
You know what I'm saying, I would like to write a children's book,  I would like-  I would just like to be a author.
So the book I'll tell you about now is called RD-NAME-3.
It's a book- it's a crime book.
You know what I'm saying, it's about the rise and fall of a dynasty.
It's just about a couple hood niggas that  made money and-  and- and the- just how things went south just by being in the drug game.
And the drug game ain't gonna last forever,  you know what I'm saying.
So,  anybody can make money, it all depends what you do with the money that you make.
You feel me.
So anybody can make- make a dollar, it just all depends what you gonna do with it.
So, you know, just about just, you know, life in the- life in the city, or life in any city, any inner city, rather.
You know what I'm saying,  of- of  drugs, prostitution,  robbery,  uh, you know,  corruption in the police-  police forces, you know what I'm saying, how they do people bad,  and- and all of that, all- all- all- all things of that nature.
I would like to write a- a- a- a- a- a- a- a horror book,  you know.
I would just like to be the- uh, use my creative side of my mind on all of these type of things.
I w- I would like to write a movie one day.
Yeah, that's- that's really-  that's really my main goal, but I was just  thought that maybe a book would be easier than to write a movie script.
So may- And then I thought about like, a lot of movies come from books.
So if I was to write a book first, that would make it easier to write  the movie script.
That's just how I think.
You can make this left right here.
You know.
Oh nah, but that's just- that- you know, that's just how I think about it.
Oh it's just something that I wanted to do, you know.
And I- I guess other books, and- and the money, for real for real.
Just to- and just to call myself a author.
Or just to-  Yeah, jai right there.
Or just to call myself a- um,  you know, a- a- a writer.
You know, just to-  just to have that title.
Oh and to see how much money I can make off of it.
Just to-  Cause I feel that the money is in the product, so if I have the product then I will have the money.
You feel me?
You can't have- make no money without no product.
So if I do these things, if I sit down and get these things accomplished,  then when it's time for me to go forward and  look for that right person to-  to-  to- to amplify  my- my- my- my- my, um,  accomplishments,  then I will be  you know,  in a good position.
Um, t- I- I really don't n- know a lot of authors.
I really don't even read a lot of books myself, but I know that people do.
You know, but I would say  like,  people who write books like-  Well I can name more- more so of  like,  movie producers and- and things like that.
Like,  Spike Lee.
You know what I'm saying, he's a- a good inspiration to me.
You know, um, whoever write the Be More Careful books and shit like that, the- the novels, the crime novels.
Them- them- them- Uh,  you know, I like- I see people read those.
And I have got myself caught up into a couple of 'em, you know what I'm saying.
And-  and that's like, one of- my girl, that's what she likes to read, crime novels or suspense,  you know, things that  opens up her mind, you know things like that.
Couple magazines that- you know, magazines I like.
Um,  just all those type of things.
It's just something that interests me.
You know, black history books,  shit like that.
You know what I'm saying, somebody wrote them, somebody sat down and was like, you know what, I'm about to put this on paper.
So anybody who- who's done that is an inspiration to me.
You know.
Um, s- I've know, uh, quite a bit, quite a- you know.
That I- that- that- that- Well- aight, well, th- th- well, what they say, that  is  from whatever we been taught to know like, whoever made  a lot of inventions  that- that the- uh, white people tell it that- that's been  taught to us that-  for us to be taught that  well a white person made this,  actually's been made by a black person.
We just didn't have the money, the ideas were stole from us, and  instead of us getting the credit for it, it was given to the person who was able to pay for it to bring it out.
Instead of the actual inventor.
So that's what- I- I- I- I strongly believe in that.
You know what I'm saying, something like- Well, I guess, so the- if I can remember correctly,  that  the person who- that mapped out Washington, DC is a black man.
We would never- I didn't know that til I was  pretty much an adult.
Well, at least like seventeen, eighteen.
Til somebody tell me, well, the person who mapped out Washington, DC is actually a black man, we would think  some white people did the shit,  you know.
Exactly, exactly.
Yeah they ain't done shit but took every motherfucking thing and put they name on the shit.
You know what I'm saying, like Martin Luther King, the struggle of the Civil Rights Movement and all of that shit.
Malcolm X story, Muhammed Ali,  you know, all our little black history, i.e., you know, the d- Black Panthers.
You know what I'm saying, all of that i- i- all of that interests-  interests me.
You know, we gotta know our history and shit like that.
Yeah.
Yeah that's the- that's the- that's just the pro- I just started this about like two weeks ago.
You just caught- I been thinking about it,  but I've just actually sat my ass down.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I been thinking about this shit for about two years now.
But now I actually sat my ass down, you was like, you know what, talk is cheap.
Let me go ahead, sit down and-  Cause you know what, I was looking for, uh, you know, people to help me.
But I see if anybody gonna help me it's gonna be myself.
So,  I got to the point where I got tired of  asking people, can you help me write this, can you c- help me come up with ideas, can you  do this that and the third.
And I just said, fuck it, I'm'a just do it myself.
If  I like it, then it's- that's gonna be good enough, you know what I'm saying.
I have people to help though, I have,  you know, people to ask, and you know, see their-  their  input or whatever or what they would like  me to write, or you know what I'm saying, what they would like to-  Cause they're gonna be reading it, so I would- you know, what  people- what they think people would like to read about  and things like that.
But  for the most part,  I'm'a just- you know, I just gotta do it myself.
You know what I'm saying, cause don't nobody  dream like you dream.
Everybody don't have the same dream.
Everybody don't  have the same ambition on how they-  on- wanna make money or- or do things the way you do.
You know what I'm saying, you gotta feed your stomach.
You know what I'm saying, don't nobody else really give a shit.
They got- they thinking about theyself.
So you have to think about yourself at times.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, I have a few siblings.
My mother- my mother she had, uh, six kids.
My father, he had five.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So we deep, we definitely deep.
Yeah I got ten brothers and sisters, yeah.
Nah my- my father's kids are actually from  Jamaica.
So they- they- th- they- they live in Maryland, I got one brother live in England.
My father kids are actually from like Jamaica though.
Yeah.
No he's a Jamaican nigga, he probably could speak  French or something like that.
He keep trying to get me to get out there,  I just haven't done it yet,  you know.
I might make that trip about- in about a year or two.
You know what I'm saying, cause I- I wanna see England my damn self.
You know what I'm saying, keep telling me to come on out.
But nah he just speak the Jamaican language, he's a s- full-fledged Jamaican, you know what I'm saying.
I don't know how long he lived out England, he probably lived out England for a few years now though cause ever since I know him,  that's where he's been,  you know.
So I give it a strong ten,  ten years  that that's where he's been at.
You know, my other sisters and them, they from Jamaica, you know.
They go back and forth to Jamaica, but they live in Maryland, they from Maryland, they- you know what I'm saying, well, they live in Maryland.
They from Jamaica but live in Maryland,  you know.
Uh,  yeah my other- my sisters and them from here- from here,  they- they live in Maryland.
Now everybody grown to where they own- can move they own  spot, so everybody lives in Maryland now.
But one sister she lived in s-  Southeast all her life, all her apartments and everything been in Southeast.
The other sister, she was more- she's from Uptown, she's actually from Northwest, yeah, she's from Northwest, she went to all Northwest schools.
She's the- she's from Uptown,  you know what I'm saying, and that's pretty much how that go.
You know, a few apartments out Northeast, shit like that,  you know, but that's pretty much it.
Yeah.
It really is- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a- it's a mixture of both.
It's bittersweet.
But it's more sweet than it is bitter.
You know, it's- it's actually fun.
You always got somebody to roll with, you always got, you know, everybody up in the same  age, you know what I'm saying, age group.
You got somebody that got your back when you-  when you out there being picked on and fucked with, you know what I'm saying.
You got a sister go fight the girl that-  that's picking with you.
You know, you can't put your hands on her, get your sister beat her up.
You know, you know, you get your older brother- you know, you got a older brother who- who looks at you like  yous- you know, like you can do everything in the world, you can whip everybody, whole time you can't.
You know, but you can't tell him that.
You know what I'm saying, he- if you ask him, you could whip everybody in the world.
I'm'a get my little brother to fuck you up.
You know what I'm saying, I- my older brother jumped me out there, so many fights and shit,  it don't even make sense.
Just by a other- like a kid maybe my age  that'll be fucking with him, he can't beat 'em up, he'll come get me.
You know what I'm saying, kid bigger than me, like damn bruh, like you just gonna throw me out there like that?
You know, I was really into sports, I could play basketball, you know what I'm saying, I actually was good at it.
So he wasn't,  so he was always come get me like, niggas play- I, you know, bet- better allow my little brother would beat you.
You know what I'm saying, now I'm on the court,  don't get no money from the shit, but I'm playing basketball to beat- just to show him  or to show his friends that I could beat  everybody that he  tell me that I can beat.
So, you know, that was actually fun though to have a brother, a older brother that think of you like that, you know.
Yeah, and so you- yeah.
Yeah, and you know what I'm saying.
Yeah  there you go, you catching on.
Where you from, Southeast?
Where you from, Uptown?
Where you from?
Yeah, but I got a couple p- I got a couple peoples, you know, a couple more peoples you might wanna- you know, that really-  that really can- you know, that's a little older than me,  and that really can, you know, elaborate on every- you know, on everything.
Yeah, me- nah, me- me particular, me particular.
Yeah, and that actually wasn't a bad thing, you know, that was  d- bittersweet.
But it actually wasn't a bad thing, cause now I know  I wasn't in one spot.
So it's like, everywhere I go I pretty much know somebody.
Yeah, I pretty much know somebody, like- Yeah, yeah, you know what I'm saying, or I been around here before, follow me, I know where the cut at, you know what I'm saying, I know where the cut at, like- Yeah, so that- that- that- that actually was a good thing.
Ah, Donald Trump.
And what I think though?
I don't- I don't wanna- see, I ain't a Donald Trump supporter, but I think people should get off his ass, for real, for real  about the race-  Donald Trump is- to me is just a white man  without- with no filter on his mouth,  so you really can't get mad  of him speaking his mind.
Cause, you know, the President supposed to  I guess, hold back, hold- See, people get mad at him cause Donald Trump is in the  President  position now.
But he's just a  man with no filter.
Donald Trump  tells you what's on- What you see is what you get from Donald Trump.
I c- I actually can trust him.
You know what I'm saying, cause it's no- He gon- he can't hide what he's feeling.
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah, least he not hiding it.
If Donald Trump don't like the uh, the Mexicans, you know he don't like Mexicans.
He not hiding it.
Yeah, but playing, yeah, see, but what you see is what you get from him, so.
I- me, personally, I could respect that and shit like that.
And I don't think- He- he may have racist tendencies, what old white man don't for real, for real?
You know what I'm saying, but I don't think he's a full fledged  racist.
He has-  he has his issues with  non-Americans.
So if you a black man  in America,  he don't like you because you a black man,  he don't like you cause you a black man that's not from America.
So take your ass to  where you wanna be,  where you need to be.
And that goes for  everybody that's not an American.
He don't care about  Spanish people that's  not  American.
Here's a p- I- so I actually, honestly almost think he's a good President  cause he wants to make America better.
You know what I'm saying,  he don't have a prob- it's- the wall he building about Spanish people,  or the shit he said about Arabs and shit,  well, I- I- I can't really speak on how he really feels about everything, but with the words that come out of his mouth,  it's  non  Americans.
We can't go to-  to- to- to Mexico and sit over there and chill.
We can't go to-  to- to- uh, uh, uh, uh,  China  and sit over there and chill.
We can't go to Russia,  and sit over there and chill.
Them presidents ain't having that shit.
It's- we can't go to,  uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,  what, d- Germany  and  sit over- They don't even like black people.
They- especially not nobody that's not from fucking Germany.
You know what I'm saying,  but we the only country that's allowing  anybody and everybody to come over here  and do what the fuck ever, you know what I'm saying.
Now it's homeless people  in here  because of  other people from other countries  coming in taking our jobs and shit and getting the jobs and- that we could be getting and we could be feeding our families with.
You know what I'm saying,  so  I can't get mad at that man for  thinking like, aight well, this is America,  and if you not a citizen then  you don't need to be here.
I mean, I can, but  I- I- I- I- I get his point.
Why the fuck does we got homeless people, homeless Americans  but we got other motherfuckers that's not even from here  making fifteen thousand-  fifteen hundred dollars a week,  you know what I'm saying, and we got- I got an American motherfucker right here,  no matter what race he is, he's from here,  why he ain't getting no money?
Here let me roll this joint down.
How race plays a factor in it?
I- nah, that's just people- Since by him not having no filter on what he say out his mouth  it would appear that he's racist, and he could be, slightly.
You know what I'm saying,  cause the shit he say is- some shit he say is ignorant.
And- you know, and you would think-  Hold on, let me see  Y- you would think that it's, um,  some racist shit.
Like he'll say, um,  you know, black people, or- or- or- or- or- or-  Afghanistanian people, Indian people, however he will phrase it,  you know,  but.
I don't think- I- I- I say give him a-  give him a chance.
He can't do no worse than what anybody else did.
You know what I'm saying, the fuck he gonna do worse than Bush?
The fuck.
And he- he gonna do worse than,  you know,  Obama?
Any mo- any motherfucking body?
Then he do say racist shit though he- you know, sometime.
But he- he joke a lot, some of the shit he might be serious about.
on that side.
Nah, I was just saying that, uh, you know-  And then a lot of people out here doing all of this shit  in the streets about  Donald Trump not our President, rioting and shit.
What the fuck are you rioting for?
He haven't even done anything  yet  for you to be out here even rioting?
Why the fuck don't you even like this man?
Do you even know about politics  for you to be  out here- No, just by with- what's- what's been said.
I said I don't like Donald Trump for my reasons, now I got these motherfuckers, sixty motherfuckers out there talking about they hate Trump.
Fuck did Trump do to you  for you to be out there talking about you hate him?
What the fuck did he fuck up  in this country    that for you to even be like, I hate the nigga.
Exactly.
Y- what- yeah, like-  Yeah.
Well, aight well, what would be like, a view for you?
What's- what is your pers- o- on it, just so- No it don't, I mean, if you saying it don't ma- I'm just asking like what you- Yeah.
Yeah.
Is it a good thing, a bad thing?
You think it's good?
Yeah, no bullshit.
Aight, hold on.
Maryland Live?
Down there by  No I haven't been there yet, I actually haven't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, on that side.
Yeah I haven't been, I haven't been.