and growing up with these strict  morals and-  and beliefs.
So  I just feel like  that right there  it's just- I don't know.
It's just i-  it's-  that already- When you come into that, it already puts you in a box.
Cause you- you getting taught something  that your family was taught  that they don't even know if it's true or not but they going with it, so it's like  just like how  you born in your family.
Your father a Redskin fan.
And you don't even know nothing about sports yet  but you see your father a Redskin fan.
Now he a Redskin- You a Redskin fan too because your father a Redskin fan.
You don't even know the history, like  now once you start becoming a little older, you start aksing questions and then you learn the history.
You might not even wanna be a Redskin fan no more,  you know what I mean?
Or you might just be like,  I do- never even wanted to- How did I know I liked the Redskins?
I just seen my father doing it so  I- I kind of feel like it's the same thing.
And- and when you don't give yourself that freedom of choice,  it- it just- it puts you in a box.
Like- and- and- and I don't- I- I'd rather not be in a box.
Yeah I- I believe I was for sure.
Like I- I m- I know I was.
I know I was.
Like growing up, I was just so confused when I was going to church.
I'd be aksing questions  in, um,  in Sunday School as a little kid  and  nobody would have a answer for me.
You know, and they might just have a lady in there,  uh, her name was, uh, Sister RD-NAME-1,  and  I- she was like a older lady and she was mean.
And she, uh,  she was a older lady and she was mean.
Oh man.
And, um,  she was like, uh,  I used to always aks her questions so she'd be like,  boy you stop aksing me all these questions.
Ain't nobody else in here aksing no question.
Why you aksing me questions?
She used to say- always say  boy why you aksing me all these questions?
Ain't nobody else in here aksing no question.
You um- Yeah, it's like you- And I- just- That was just me being young.
I- I ain't really know, but at some point, I- I kind of like  wanted to  be like- I- I wouldn't say accepted, but I just-  I started listening what was going on  and I never really could understand like  like I always feel like it was a pattern.
Like every year  certain sermons would get preached around the same times,  and I used to just start catching on to different things and I just wanted to-  It just started being like, aksing questions.
Yeah like, around certain times of the year or  different situations, you know, it's like the same,  so I- I don't know.
I just-  yeah, I- I just always wanted to know more, but-  and my family,  my grandmother, she's-  Like, you not about to come in there and tell her no different.
And  I don't care what facts or none of that, she not even about to hear it, so  it just shows how  a belief can really- Yeah, it really like- it- it- it really affects a person to the core.
Like,  that's how far a belief can go.
Whether it's true or not.
It just show you the- the power of the brain and how it can be  tricked.
If- if you allow it to,  and you will be in a daze.
People like in a daze.
And some people, they-  even if they-  some people are really scared of the truth.
Like even if you come at them, they been believing something for so long,  they don't even like  wanna-  At- like they at this point they- they just feel like I don't even wanna hear it.
Like I- I- I can't.
Like they don't even wanna face that reality.
So,  that just show you how  deep belief go too.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah I seen it.
For me, it doesn't change me because I- I- like I'm- I'm sure of myself when I'm around people.
Like I feel like whatever they say to me can't really  shake me in my core.
Like your belief is your belief,  and I only can view it as that, so  nothing that you gonna say to me  about your belief  is gonna like make me  uncomfortable or  make me feel no type of way.
Like I'm still gonna- still gonna talk to you the same way.
Like I'm still gonna-  You know, I'm not about to- I'm not gonna act different.
Like if somebody gonna be acting different, it's gonna be the other person.
Like I- I- I wouldn't act different at all.
Like it wouldn't affect me in no way.
Like my cousin, I- I went to church with my cousin a few years back,  and at the end,  he- This is like a church he was really,  um,  a part of, and he always had a good relationship with the pastor.
And ended up, um,  at the end of the sermon and  church let out, whatever,  he introduced me to him,  and I shook his hand.
I'm like,  hey what's up with you?
How you doing?
And like they felt like the way I spoke to him was like,  improper or something.
And I couldn't really understand what they was talking about.
Like,  I spoke to him- Like I didn't disrespect him.
I- I- You know what I mean?
I spoke to him  as if he was any other man.
Like why would I have to speak to him  in a- in a higher regard than-  than me?
Like, you- you know what I'm saying?
That's how I feel.
And they looking at me like  I was doing something wrong.
But it's like, even though I see a man in his robe  and all these people were listen him, I- he don't- I- me, I don't feel like he's no more important than I am.
Yeah.
So like that's just how I always carry myself, so,  I- that- that don't really affect me.
People beliefs don't really affect me is the point of what I was saying.
But yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah yeah, I- I- I go on, um- I go on YouTube a lot, looking up different things or, um,  or videos that- and-  some people post different things.
But yeah, I- I definitely try to talk to people  I- and- and see what their perspectives of- of life and  belief and,  um,  purpose or w- I- I talk to my friends  or, um, and I- I take notes too.
Like I- I write things down that  I might wanna aks a person that I seen in a video or  I might wanna bring up or I might wanna have  for myself in case I come into a conversation  about something or- or different things, so.
Yeah I try- I try to, um,  I- I'm sure I could invest more time  studying and- and actually going to get books.
Um, but for the most part, I do- I do research a couple times a week.
Uh,  look for different things.
But, um, yeah.
I- I definitely- I don't just try to keep it to myself.
If I see something that I- I find that's crazy that's- I need to share,  I call somebody  and tell 'em like, well listen to this.
Like, how you feel about this.
You know what I mean?
So  I don't-  Cause some things is so overwhelming, you got to share it.
You got to see, like-  like, how you feel about this?
This is crazy right here.
You know what I'm saying?
Like so I- You wanna get another person perspective cause you wanna know, like  I know I'm not tripping.
Like,  this is- Everybody should be mad about this.
You know what I mean, sort of things?
So you got to get it all fast.
Like certain stuff- Like, well I write it down cause I- Some stuff I don't wanna forget.
Like if I seen in a video  I come across it  or somebody mighta said something,  I try to remember it.
Write it down when I get home or some different things.
Cause I- I really feel like the power  is- is the knowledge, and then what you do with the knowledge.
But for me right now, I- I feel like  I'm still in the awakening phase of-  of finding things and  seeing things,  so.
Yeah.
Like just seeing things for what they are, and  how  confused they done had us  over these years.
Like and just different things.
Just trying to like,  get myself in order to be- Like for instance, uh,  like, with foods.
For me I always struggle with foods, but  now I'm learning that there's different things in foods that make us wanna eat more food.
Or, uh,  different things in food that- that-  that our bodies just go through that don't have no v- nutritional value.
Just tryna educate myself now  to, uh- where I can be an example of the  knowledge and the things that I'm reading.
Um, well I just seen the video the other day of a, um, like a bag of- simple, like a bag of chicken wings.
Like, uh,  a person had a bag.
These wings was huge, like,  and  nowadays people eating  bigger wings and not even like, paying attention to it.
And it's just become a common, like, oh, this is a big wing.
It's a good thing.
You know what I mean?
So that's whatchu-  that's how you wanna-  that's how they want you to view it.
But in reality, the wing-  He compared it to like, uh- uh- a regular wing,  and the wings was just  like- it was huge.
And both 'em sposta be party wings.
Like, that's just an example.
Like something like,  the chicken is being fed  with hormones or- I mean, it just- it makes you- Even if you don't know  what it is, it makes you wanna look and find out  why is this chicken bigger than this chicken?
You know what I mean?
And like,  that's for anybody.
Like I don't really know all the things that's in it, but it m- it makes me curious.
And like,  oh that chicken big and that chicken something ain't right here.
So it makes you w- it makes you start to think, damn.
Like it makes you rethink the whole process of what we're eating,  how we're eating,  why we should eat- Like it makes you just wanna go to the history of-  you know what I mean?
Like food and- and- and you know what I'm saying?
The what do we eat?
Like for me- And that's why I'm- I'm tryna move towards now but,  oh,  twenty eight years of eating these foods that they make you like,  they market them to your mind to make you wanna  crave- It's like a whole- It's a whole scheme.
You know?
So  it's- You gotta be-  you- it takes strength to really like, restrain.
And I don't- That's what I'm dealing with now.
Trying to get to the point where  I take the things that I know  and apply it  when it comes to food.
You know?
So.
Well right now I'm not working.
I'm about to start school.
Um,  I was- I was a cook.
I was cooking working for, uh,  Marriott and a couple little independent little kitchens too.
Um,  but just being around food.
I always been around food, even growing up cooking,  my family liked to cook.
So  I- I was cooking for years.
So being around food,  and having a creative mind and- and the different things you can do with food,  and  that part of it,  kind of like,  makes you wanna eat the things that you know you can't eat just  the creativity of it and the being around a abundance of food.
Um,  but  you also get to see being around abundance of healthy foods, you get to see the effect of those too.
And I see both sides working in the kitchen.
Like, I really had the choice every day  to eat healthy or eat bad,  you know?
And it's just a-  a  more of a, um, easier choice to-  to do something bad, far as food.
Like,  it's easier and it's routine.
You might go and grab  a cookie, second nature, and not even know, you know what I mean?
Can happen so fast  if you- that's what you  used to doing.
So  it just like a transitional type thing and being around food,  different foods-  Me, I grew up eating a lot of sweets,  so I like, my mother,  she big on sweets, so I- I eat a lot of sweets.
That's always been a problem for me, too.
So e- it's just really the discipline at this point,  being disciplined.
Taking the knowledge that I know about foods and just applying it.
But that's what- the point of what I was saying was  I'm tryna get myself in, uh, physical-  Um,  I wanna be physically, mentally, spiritually,  everything balanced.
So when I'm speaking and talking to people, they looking at me as a person who  like yeah, he look like he know exactly what he talking about.
He- like he did some research.
Just-  just not for their impressions, just  to make me more confident as I'm speaking.
You know?
And- and speaking of things that I learned?
You know what I mean?
Yeah.