September eighth,  nineteen eighty two.
I was born  um, on Scott Air Force Base in St.
Louis-  Well in Illinois.
It wasn't really St.
Louis.
But we m-  I lived in St.
Louis,  um, when I was- after I was born there.
I moved um, to the area  when I was three  so nineteen eighty five.
I grew up in Forestville, Maryland,  which is sometimes called District Heights, Maryland,  and um,  I went to school in  Northeast  as a kid  um, when we first moved here.
Then I went to schools in uh, Maryland, but  now I live  back in Northeast  in uh, Lincoln Heights.
So Forestville and Lincoln Heights are where I-  where I've resided.
No.
I- Three minutes, like-  Mm-hm.
So I went to school-  Uh, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School  in Walker Mill.
Um,  before that I went to RD-SCHOOL-6  um, in Lincoln Heights  when we first moved here.
And that was like my pre K three,  pre K four  days.
My mom is a DC-  DC teacher, so she taught there, and we went to school there.
But  after RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School,  graduated from there and went to RD-SCHOOL-4 Middle School  in Upper Marlboro, Maryland.
And then  went to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School  in Largo, Maryland.
Then um, RD-SCHOOL-8  in Bowie, Maryland.
It's where I graduated.
I am  the lead pastor of RD-WORK-5,  and I am also  the CEO of  RD-WORK-3  RD-WORK-4  which is a multi media  faith based  uh, company.
Um, my mom and dad are from Mississippi.
So my father was born  in  uh, Hattiesburg, Mississippi,  and my mother  is from Smith-  Smithville, Mississippi,  the farmlands.
So my dad  um,  he was in the Army National Guard.
Um,  so he is now l-  a retired lieutenant colonel.
And my mother  uh, was a DC school teacher, so my mom has worked in DCPS  maybe twenty five years, something like that.
Alright.
Mm-hn.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So  uh, my mom  taught at the  private Christian school called RD-SCHOOL-6, which is now  uh,  closed up,  condemned.
Not condemned but it's- it's closed up.
But um,  so my mom working there we were able to go there  um, until we were of age to go to  PG County,  and we moved to Forestville,  um,  started going to school,    and uh,  yeah.
We lived in Forestville for most of my life,  and uh,  when I got married,  my wife and I  mo- lived briefly in Upper Marlboro before  um, we moved here to DC.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah we lived in a townhouse- uh, townhouse complex.
Um,  had a lot of fun.
You- There were uh- Growing up in the nineties, there were  lot of  you know,  temptations to get pulled in the wrong direction.
Um,  you know, amidst of having fun  we would um, also have to avoid certain things in the a- in the streets that we knew we weren't supposed to be involved in.
And uh,  yeah.
It was pretty interesting just kind of  experiencing  the dynamics  of  being middle class black family,  but having this  um,  kind of a  hood mentality  in the neighborhood.
It was a unique hybrid  in PG County  um,  especially with the gentrification that started coming to DC.
We started having more elements of what a lot of people normally associated with  Northeast and Southeast  parts of DC  as far as crime and drugs, things like that,  you know, in our- in our community.
So we were exposed to that,  and tryna-  for me as a kid, I was tryna walk the-  walk the straight and narrow cause I- I grew up in a home where we-  we learned about Jesus, learned about God,  but  you know, there were temptations pulling  also.
So you have this  kind of dichotomy going on where it's like, you know, uh,  I know I should do the right thing, but- You know.
I could ask forgiveness.
Um, so  just growing up like that, I had to really  make sure that um,  I had a faith of my own in God,  and that's really  one of the strong points in my life that kept me from  doing a lot of criminal activity that a lot of my friends ended up  doing,  um,  and just getting involved in, so.
No actually, I'm a middle child.
So I have a older brother,  and I have a younger brother.
And so I'm dead smack in the middle.
Three- my parents had three boys, so.
Um,  middle child,  um-  It was pretty cool.
I um-  I was the skinniest of  my brothers, so I got all their hand me downs.
Even my l- younger brother was bigger than me.
So  it was just pretty fun  to just get clothes from your little brother  and no one buys you clothes because you can fit everybody else's.
But um-  that's not true.
They bought me clothes but  I got a lot of hand me downs.
It was pretty cool.
Um,  my older brother's three years older than me, so  we kind of had a gap.
We don't really- we didn't really play together as much as my little brother.
He's just one year younger than me.
So we had  a lot more  synergy  playing with toys, playing sports together, things like that.
But um,  over all, it was pretty fun.
We were video game  fanatics,  so when we were kids,  of course, Nintendo, Sega Genesis.
And then when the Nintendo Sixty Four came out when I was like,  starting high school,  I was just hooked.
So I was like, well,  no more homework for me.
And we just-  we would get a big bowl of cereal,  uh, Frosted Flakes-  we'd get a tub of it,  and we would just go in the basement and just spend hours  playing video games.
My favorite video game was  probably  WCW vs NWO,  which is a wrestling game.
And it tied with like, GoldenEye Double O Seven.
It's like a  first person shooter game.
So before all the new games like Halo and Call of Duty,  it was Double Oh Seven, and it was just a first person shooter game.
So tha- those were like revolutionary games, and I was like, man,  no need to see the sunlight.
I'm just in here.
So I really feel bad for kids now having all this technology,  tryna focus in school.
I probably would have just  flunked high school with all the video games that they have now.
Yeah, so my dad got stationed-  my dad was stationed at- Um, he was stationed at Scott Air Force Base  um, where I- where I was born.
And you know, being a military brat,  people normally expect  that I moved around a lot,  but th-  that was actually our last stop.
After I was born, the last stop was  the DC Armory.
So my dad was working at the DC Armory right by RFK Stadium,  and uh, that's how we got here.
And um,  yeah,  just been here ever since.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah yeah.
Yeah, well, you know, I never went to school in my neighbor-  in my city.
It's so weird.
I lived in Forestville,  but went to elementary school in Walker Mill.
Went to middle school in Upper Marlboro,  went to high school in Largo.
But there's a elementary, middle, and high school in Forestville.
So I lived right on that  edge of the city l- l-  like the divisor in the countr- in the county.
But I didn't go  in any of my city's schools.
Anyway,  um, elementary school was pretty fun.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School,  which was  I believe the first-  if not the first, one of the first elementary schools  um, to start uniforms.
So before-  before all these schools had uniforms,  RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School  had uniforms,  home of the Bears.
And I remember because  we went to kindergarten there, I was like,  why is everybody wearing white shirts and blue ties and blue pants?
I was like, what is that?
And um,  they- they said that because the kids were having  um,  challenges, making fun of each other and not focusing in school,  this school was test piloted-  what if everybody wore the same thing?
Would it help?
And then they saw- they said it helped as far as kids being focused, so  we all wore the same thing.
So elementary school was pretty fun, had some fun teachers.
Um,  we used to uh, have those  big posters on the wall in the school down the hallway like,  DARE,  say no to drugs, or  Saved by the Bell.
I actually went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School like,  five years ago, to visit,  and the same black girl from Saved by the Bell, Lisa, she is still  on the wall .
And I was just like, oh my gosh.
Like,  Lark Voorhies is her name I think.
Why- y'all couldn't get another poster?
So RD-SCHOOL-2,  God bless 'em.
Hopefully they got a new poster now.
But I was just like, man, y'all keeping it- um,    keeping it traditional here.
And the same Chester the Cheetos  advertisement from when I was a kid is still there.
But um, the school was great.
Um, RD-NAME-5 was our principal.
She was a great- great woman.
She's been a delegate now in PG County,  and she really  is kind of like a Joe Clarke.
She- she kind of whipped us into shape  um, cause the school wasn't like- really struggling,  and she came in and like, really  cracked the whip.
Um,  yeah.
Yeah, uh,  uh, Miss RD-NAME-3.
Sh- she was a- I- Irish lady.
Miss RD-NAME-3 was real cool.
Um,  my fourth grade teacher.
Um- cause my mom was a English teacher in DC,  but Miss RD-NAME-3 would really really-  used to encourage me with like writing.
Um,  I didn't know later I would be  a pastor or  you know, a rapper,  you know.
So writing was gonna become something that I really did a lot of, but  at the time,  I was just interested in stories  and writing.
Um,  so she was really really  really great.
And then um, Miss RD-NAME-3.
Miss- Miss RD-NAME-1-  There was a Miss RD-NAME-3, then a Miss RD-NAME-3.
So Miss RD-NAME-3 was my sixth grade teacher,  and she- she's also a pastor  um, of a church.
Um, but she was a great teacher.
She was  just awesome.
She- she was very focused and helped us grow  in o- in our-  in our English and reading.
So that's my favorite subject, English and reading.
And math- yeah math,  ugh-  uh, it's tough.
It was like, uh, if I have to take it I will,  but- At RD-SCHOOL-4.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
So middle school was interesting for a number of reasons.
One,  I went from a school-  a elementary school that had uniforms to a middle school that didn't.
So I had never shopped for school.
I had never like,  shopped for clothes  to wear.
I didn't know what was cool to wear cause we just wore uniforms.
So that's back when Karl Kani was real hot.
It was just  a t-shirt with a big brass square on your chest.
I'm like, come on Karl.
God bless you Karl if you hear this recording.
But dog, it was like a big  brass  rectangle with his name.
And the shirt would get heavy right there.
If you washed it, it's like, metal- metal is like, on your chest.
I'm like, why not  use a silk screen or-    anyway.
So-  so I got a- I got a Karl Kani shirt.
We used to get those um,  Warner Brothers shirts,  like Bugs Bunny with his hop hop clothes on, and like,  Disney- everybody was into hip hop.
This was the nineties.
And ninety five.
So I would wear those kind of shirts.
Went to RD-NAME-4, it was culture shock.
I was small skinny dude with the glasses,  and we was- first time going to school with white people  because  um-  Again, I lived in Forestville, Maryland on that  c-  edge.
We were all shocked, all my friends and I, we got bussed from Forestville,  you know.
Lower middle class, middle class-ish  black people  to farm land.
We would drive past trailer parks and cows.
I'm like, what?
What is this?
Where we going?
Bus driver you got the wrong way.
This isn't the right way to school.
I remember my friends like, what the heck?
Where are they taking us?
But um,  in middle school,  uh, I had some great experiences.
I had a great art teacher,  uh, Mr.
RD-NAME-1, RD-NAME-3.
And he really helped me get-  cause I love comic books.
So,  he was a comic book artist, and so he really-  I was in the art club, and  I would draw and paint.
He- his class was my favorite.
I had some dope English teachers.
First time I started rapping was  in my English teacher's class, Miss RD-SCHOOL-3.
We had to create this  culture.
We had to create a society  using our imaginations, and so  three of my friends, we created this uh-  this- this uh, nation called the Reptil- the Reptiles.
And I drew the flag.
It was like a r- a lizard, with its like-  the two-  two deuces up  peace sign.
And they hated snakes,  so  Goodie Mob was a hip hop group that was real popular back then,  and um,  you know, the song was, who's that peaking in my window?
Blow,   Nobody now.
So,  don't ask us how we got  the- the- the instrumental, but we got the instrumental.
The- mind- This is nineteen ninety five, so there was no internet to like,  download the beat from, but somehow-  somehow we got the beat on a tape.
And we wrote my first time writing a rap song.
I was like, in t-  eighth grade.
So we were writing this rap song, and I was like-  Yeah I remember it um, cause my name is RD-NAME-6.
So my- my verse was,  species number three.
It be me little ST, the baddest one of them all, finna make them snakes fall.
That's all I remember that I wrote  because we hated- cause we were the Rep-  Uh, RD-NAME-4, s- you know, I was species number three.
I was the third one, and we hated snakes.
So I remember that, and I was like, man, rapping is  cool, man.
Like,  I never thought I could rap.
I grew up listening to it but I never thought I would be rapping.
So  that was great from a academics perspective.
Um,  socially, I was kind of awkward.
Um, I had a guy who was a uh,  somewhat of a- not somewhat, he was actually a bully,  this big guy.
I don't know where this guy came from, but he just saw me, and was like, hey, you're small.
You know, you have glasses.
Let's try you.
So  I had some insecurities.
You know,  uh, got me to the point where I actually was very suicidal,  RD-NAME-2.
So I tried to take my life twice in one day.
Um, I remember that day because I made a um,  noose out of a jump rope,  and I put it around my neck, and I tried to to hang myself.
And the one thing that kept me  was  my faith in God.
There was like-  there was a knowing that my life had purpose.
Um, I got saved when I was six, and so I gave my life to Jesus Christ when I was six.
So at this time I was like,  twelve.
And at twelve, I was like, man, my life would be better if I'm not in it.
And so  you know, I had low self esteem.
Um, I had some just challenges with-  challenges in my home like not getting along with my parents, and  you know, I didn't have many friends.
So I just felt like a outcast for this part of my life.
And I thank God that I didn't take my life because  I didn't know what I was gonna become,  you know?
Um, I didn't know I'd be a speaker that travels around the country and talks to kids and be a pastor here in DC and  be a hip hop artist and stuff.
Like I didn't know all that-  to help people, encourage people.
So I feel like the devil-  I believe in the devil.
If you're listening to this recording,  I believe in the devil and God.
So  I believe that the devil wanted me to-  to- to kill myself so that  I wouldn't reach my potential, my purpose.
All throughout the Bible  I started noticing like,  Satan would try to kill significant people when they were children.
You know,  the King tried to kill  uh, Moses.
Or Pharaoh tried to kill Moses, all the babies, so Moses wouldn't come, and then  the King tried to kill Jesus,  p- so Jesus wouldn't become and be the Messiah.
So I feel- not that I'm Moses or Jesus, but I just f-  I just see a pattern of,  let's take him out of the equation before he can do some damage.
So  once I got past that part,  where I realized my life had purpose,  um,  it didn't matter what the dude said or tried to shove me or stuff.
I learned to avoid him.
Um,  and I got my little brother on him a little bit cause my little brother was bigger than me, so my little brother was tryna fight him.
So  I w- I made it through middle school,  and uh-  and yeah.
But that was a very difficult time  cause that's when you're tryna  figure out everything.
Y- you're not necessarily a little kid anymore, but you're not a  teenager either.
You're really- It's the tween.
You're not a teen, you're a tween, so I was in between what-  who I was and didn't know exactly where I was going  and who I was gonna be.
But God was the center for my  uh-  s- sustaining me in that time,  you know.
So yeah.
So that was middle school.
Okay, so  I just- I just told you all that,  God was significant in my life in middle school.
N- this is nineteen ninety five, summer of going into nineteen ninety six.
I w-  I said, well I'm going in the total opposite direction.
Thank you God for keeping me from killing myself,  but  I won't be punked again, homie.
So I went-  I got- I went into a very rebellious stage.
I started hanging with  my older brother and some of his friends, was smoking weed.
Um,  you know,  just  being rebellious.
I- I hit a growth spurt the summer after eighth grade.
I remember looking up to the sky and just saying-  you know, cursing God.
Um, again,  uh,  God-  I knew God called me  to- to live for him.
I- I went from being suicidal and depressed  to being extremely prideful and thinking I don't need God  within a matter of months.
Um,  hey.
The young-  the young twelve year old mind.
So God helped me, and then I was like, okay, thanks God.
Now I don't need you  cause I'm not gonna be vulnerable anymore.
So  I started hanging with dudes that were  you know, selling drugs, getting in gang fights.
The- the bad of-  the badder influence of my neighborhood.
And we went to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, so mind you, Forestville is a  lower middle class  neighborhood  that had some  elements of  drug use,  drug abuse, drug dealing,  crime, criminal, gun shots here and there.
And well then I go to RD-SCHOOL-2,  which if you're listening to this recording, you don't know where RD-SCHOOL-2 is, it's like-  P-  Prince George's County at one time was the most affluent black county in America, and RD-SCHOOL-2 was like, the mecca of it.
So this was nineteen ninety six.
We were going to school with kids pulling up in  Benzes  and like,  Lexuses, and I'm like, y'all are rich dudes, you know.
And- and they-  and there was this kind of  c- social cast  system  in RD-SCHOOL-2 High School  kind of like uh, Romeo and Juliet.
Um, the- like,  you got the haves and the have nots, and they don't like each other.
So they called us  dirty Forestville bamas, and  we called them rich RD-SCHOOL-2 bamas, and there were lots of fights.
So I found myself  hitting a growth spurt,  uh, got a little facial hair.
I got like one  s-  piece of s-  beard  that came in, and I thought I was grown.
Um, I started hanging with seniors being a freshman, so you know that's- that gave me some cool points.
And s- and some of the guys that didn't wanna h- catch my back in middle school, they all wanted to impress me because I was hanging with the seniors cause my older brother was a senior.
And I was a freshman.
But in the midst of that, I'm sitting at the senior table at lunch.
I'm hanging with senior girls.
I'm talking to girls cause my brother's cool, he plays football.
You know, I'm- I'm-  I'm hanging with drug dealers.
One of my-  One of my friends RD-NAME-1- I wanted to be just like RD-NAME-1.
Um, he used to grow out his pinky nail and-  and cut up cocaine.
And um, I was hanging with these guys,  and I remember  a moment  um, in ninth grade where  we were riding to the RD-SCHOOL-2 Suitland game.
And back then, RD-SCHOOL-2 and Suitland High School had a crazy beef.
And they-  uh, RD-NAME-1-  believe- I believe RD-NAME-1 had a gun on him,  and I just told him, let me out the car.
Like the Holy Spirit of God-  You know, I believe the Holy Spirit of God speaks to believers, and although I was in a rebellious state of mind,  I was still saved.
And-  and there was a knowing to get out of that car.
And so they let me out, and I just kind of stood around the-  the football game  by myself, and they went off and did something stupid.
So  I- I was at this crossroads,  as a um,  fourteen year old now,  and the thing-  the straw that broke the camel's back for me, in high school,  where I turned my life  uh, from being rebellious toward God to um-  repenting is what we call it when we turn from our sin  and- and go back toward living for God.
My twin towers fell.
Uh, my first tower was my older brother.
He got arrest- well,  he almost got arrested.
He got chewed up by police dogs in a high speed chase.
He got- got kicked out of the house.
Bail bondsmen were looking for him.
And then my second tower was Tupac Shakur.
So  we used to listen to Thug Life, Tupac Shakur.
You know, this- smoking weed, drinking, we listening to Tupac,  and I remember when he got killed.
It was right after my birthday.
Cause I was born September eighth, and he died like, September  thirteenth or s- s- like, seven days or something after my birthday  in Las Vegas.
And like, we were listening to WPGC, and I was like,  Pac is dead.
And it just like- we were all riding to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, and we were just like-  we were just so taken aback cause Tupac was our role model.
You know what I'm saying?
So  I found myself-  if the guy that invented Thug Life  and was living this fast life in the streets,  he died.
And my older brother got caught up  in this same stuff,  and he just got a-  chewed up by police dogs, in the hospital,  kicked out the house.
What's about to happen to  RD-NAME-6?
So I remember I had a moment where I said, you know,  God if you're real, show me you're real.
Like I know last year I cursed you out, but I mean,  I- I want a real relationship with you, not some fake religion, not some-  you know, just  saying-  catchy church sayings, and  I want something real  or-  or I'm next.
And that's when  I started um, really paying attention in church,  started taking more notes,  and just started  changing my life- or God started changing my life, or I started  pulling back from some of those negative influences from my neighborhood.
I stopped hanging with them by the lockers.
I started going to the library reading the Bible on my own, wait til the first bell ring and I go straight to class.
And, oh where you at RD-NAME-2- they didn't call me RD-NAME-2, they called me RD-NAME-2.
Hey where you at, man?
Where you been?
Nah man, I ain't about that no more.
And- and from there,  I started just teaching people the Bible whatever I was learning  in the library.
And then it grew into the cafeteria.
So I was leading a Bible study  in the- in uh, eleventh and- my junior and senior year of high school I was leading a Bible study every morning  in the cafeteria before the first bell would ring, and we'd pray.
And so when the Columbine incident happened in nineteen ninety nine,  when Eric and Dylan uh, shot up their school  in uh,  Columbine, Colorado,  that  next school day,  the whole cafeteria was full of-  the wh- I felt like the whole school  tried to squeeze into that cafeteria to pray.
Now, we were- we were leading a Bible study every morning  and praying.
Every morning we had about fifteen, twenty students.
But  when tragedy struck America- cause we had never seen  a terrorist attack-  It was like a- It was a terrorist attack  by  American teenagers on their own school.
It was just-  If you wanna- if you-  you're listening to this, and you weren't around in nineteen ninety nine, it was like,  the biggest shock in- of the country.
And so  going into school that next school day, the whole cafeteria was full of people wanting to pray.
And so that-  those were the days when I started really walking in-  in my faith with the Lord.
I started out just teaching whatever my pastor taught the Sunday before.
I'd be like, come on pastor,  give me some good stuff cause I gotta have five days of material now.
I got Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday Bible Study, man.
Don't-  Come on.
And after awhile, I ran out of stuff to preach that he had preached.
I used to preach whatever he preached but after awhile-  you know, he's preaching fifty two times a year,  and I'm tryna teach  however many days there is- school days there is a year.
Two hundred something.
So that wasn't adding up.
So I was like, uh, I need some more messages.
So I started sitting at the front of the bus,  reading a proverb a day  and just tryna ask God to give me interpretation.
I know I wasn't interpreting it the best,  but I was doing the best I could.
And the kids in the back  throwing stuff,  the bus driver said, I'm turning the bus around!
Aw man, blank you.
Blank blank.
I'm like,    so  my- my friends I used to hang with I distanced myself, and they're like, lighting stuff on fire in the back of the bus and  hitting people in the head and throwing stuff.
And I'm- I went all the way to the front of the bus so I could focus on a message  to share with my peers.
And that's kind of- that was high school in a nut shell.
I graduated  um, from high school in two thousand.
I had one person sign my year book.
And- So I went from being  a depressed nobody in middle school  to  n- ninth grade,  a person that  had all th-  getting all this clout.
Like my brother was  kind of passing the baton of the legacy he built in the school.
He was a-  you know, number sixty five,  played on defensive line.
He big guy- big strong man, had all this  respect,  and I was following his footsteps.
You know, we were  hanging out with the dudes, sell drugs and use 'em and  then I just- God called me away from that.
So I went from tryna-  From being a depressed nobody in middle school to  a big somebody  to a  saved-  walking the path that I felt was right-  in a matter of  a few years.
So  that was high school.
Uh, went to RD-SCHOOL-8.
Um,  I wanted to go to Howard University but my-  I didn't do well on the SAT at all.
I got like a  nine twenty five the first time.
The second time I got a eight  something.
Well this isn't for me.
So my- my SAT scores weren't good enough to go to Howard so  I went to what they call thirteenth grade.
I went across the street to RD-SCHOOL-8.
And um,  I didn't treat it like thirteenth grade.
Some of the- some of the richer kids were skipping class.
I'm like, you guys are  dumb.
Like,  You- your mom's paying for this, right?
Cause I'm paying for my education.
I'm- you must have somebody silver spooning you, man.
Security guards would have say, yo, go to class!
Go to class.
I'm like, this is not high school.
This is college.
RD-SCHOOL-2 was-  was really great.
I loved it cause you could have a class every hour on the hour,  and I was able to work around my work schedule.
I was working and going to-  there.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 for two and a half years,  and then I finished up at RD-SCHOOL-3.
I went three years at RD-SCHOOL-3.
At RD-SCHOOL-3-  Well at RD-SCHOOL-2 I was um,  just kind of mentoring  um-  tryna start and mentor teenagers,  um, tryna share- share about God with-  with some of the younger kids in my neighborhood.
And then um,  in college at RD-SCHOOL-3,  Campus Crusade for Christ  um, has a um,  organization for HBCU.
It's called the Impact Movement.
And so it's a uh, campus ministry,  and I became the- the uh- the teacher for Impact Movement at RD-SCHOOL-8 for those-  two of those three years.
And uh, at RD-SCHOOL-3 I majored in, um, fine arts,  concentration computer graphics.
I thought I was gonna be a cartoon  animator  and a comic book artist cause that's  you know-  I love drawing, and I do voi- voices and impersonations.
I would do some now but  it would make you laugh, and then  it would ruin this recording.
But um- but yeah.
I would like impersonate  Power Rangers, Batman, Scooby Doo.
So I thought I would be a voice over artist  and a uh,  visual artist, a comic book artist.
So I- I would draw comic books in my basement.
When I was wasn't playing video games, I'd draw comic books.
Cause I wasn't- I'm not very athletic.
I didn't like to play sports but I- I like to be creative and draw and write.
So  I thought I would do that but  at RD-SCHOOL-8 is when God gave me clarity.
I was interning at  RD-WORK-9,  and I just hated it.
No offense RD-WORK-3,  but I just-  I just-  you ever felt like you just w-  you weren't in the right place?
I thought this is what I wanted to do with my life,  but I went to this um-  this conference for teenagers called uh, Acquire the Fire.
Uh, Acquire the Fire  by Teen Mania,  it's a ministry.
They- they-  They do these stadium events all over the country, and they have speakers and  rock bands and rappers and  um,  you know, prayer and  multimedia like-  They would make little short films and-  and  skits, and I'm like, man,    this is so cool.
Man, like  it's- it's the performing arts meets the visual arts meets ministry.
And I was like,  this is what I wanna do.
Not sitting in RD-WORK-9 designing stuff for their website.
I was doing some real menial things there.
The int- so I quit the internship there.
Miss-  Uh, I'm not gonna say her name, but  she- sh-  she wasn't  seem- didn't seem too thrilled about it cause I did a short film  at RD-SCHOOL-8 called The Road to Damascus.
So I took a cinematography class.
I had never l-  thought I would do films but I said-  we had to do a five minute short film, so  my friend worked at RD-SCHOOL-8 Television.
We got two cameras.
Thanksgiving  two thousand four-  Thanksgiving weekend, we filmed it in three days.
A forty minute short film, we shot it in uh,  uh,  uh- what was it?
Kentland, um-  we were over behind the Public Playhouse filming.
We were filming all over  PG County.
And basically I played this  drug dealer who  w-  got locked up in a juvenile detention center but came out  and had a encounter with Christ  and changed his life around.
So  uh, one day I might show it you,  but it's a-  it's a no budget film.
I paid my actors with pizza um,  because I was a college student with no money.
But we- we did some screenings of the film at my church,  and lot of people got saved.
Um, I- I preached the gospel  of Jesus Christ at the um-  after the movie showing we had a praise band,  lot of kids got saved, and I said, man, this is what I wanna do with my life.
I wanna make multi media ministry,  multi media ministry.
So that's how my company RD-WORK-7 got started in college.
You know um, we- we help make the Bible make sense through multi media venues,  so  rapping, preaching,  consulting,  clothing.
We make all kind of things, video blogs, written blogs,  uh-  we have all kinds of resources to help people grow.
So I started that in college and this f-  this movie was a great catalyst for that, so I went back to my internship at RD-WORK-3.
I mean this is my senior year at RD-SCHOOL-8, my senior year.
My- my professor told me I had to take an internship so I  do this internship, and I just told  my intern  supervisor, I said, you know, Miss so and so,  last night was incredible.
Like  fifty-  fifty kids gave their life to Jesus Christ.
And she was like,  is that  what you wanted to happen?
I was like, uh,  yeah.
I am a Christian.
And uh, I just told her, you know  I can't-  I can't keep driving up here to Odenton and doing this.
Like  I don't wanna do this for a living.
I'm sorry.
Sorry Big Bird.
So  I said goodbye to all the um-  The characters weren't there but  I would see Big Bird on the screen and stuff.
So I just like, you know-  this isn't for me.
I gotta go.
And that's when I went and started my own- started my company,  and then I got hired as a youth pastor um,  and the rest is kind of history, how I got into  my full time  career  in ministry and in music and multimedia.
But that's kind of how it happened,  straight from college on.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Soon as I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3  University,  I was hired at RD-WORK-3 to be the Youth um-  a Youth Discipleship Director.
So I basically was overseeing creative elements for the youth ministry  and you know, teaching- teaching the kids  and uh, overseeing like their small group ministry.
Like, we would get the kids and break 'em up in groups  and discussed what we learned in church  and break it down.
So  I was doing creative things  at the uh, youth ministry.
Um, and I was teaching.
Uh, seven years.
Yeah.
Almost.
So I met her in the youth ministry.
Yeah.
Yeah, so  she-  she came from New Jersey.
She-  she um-  she felt-  she went into a time of fasting and prayer which is basically  where you seek God for clarity on our life.
You- you-  you don't eat food for awhile,  and you just go into some prayer.
And she felt God calling her to move to Maryland.
And it was crazy cause she doesn't have any family in Maryland.
She's from New Jersey.
Her fam- her family was like, what?
Why you going to Maryland?
But she went to Maryland.
I tell her,  everybody, she came to Maryland because I was here.
That's why she came.
And so she came to Maryland,  and  she actually visited  the church I was working at.
And-  and she started volunteering in the youth ministry where I was on staff at, and that's how we met.
So we had a mutual connection to wanna see young people  live better lives, l- ultimately live  lives for Jesus Christ.
And she's a teacher  also.
So she was teaching elementary school  and working with teenagers  in a volunteer basis.
And I was teaching  teenagers  and working with them  from a full time capacity on- on staff at the church.
So  that's how my wife RD-NAME-2 and I met,  and um, after being friends and serving in ministry for about a year and a half,  uh, we got married  um, in uh, two thousand eight.
And uh, yeah, been married seven years.
We moved to DC in two thousand thirteen.
So from two thousand eight to two thousand thirteen  I moved from Forestville, and I was living in Upper Marlboro briefly  um, cause I didn't wanna be anywhere near DC.
You know?
I was kind of like- if-  if you're familiar with the story of um,  uh,  Jonah  in the Bible.
He really hated the Ninevites.
I can't stand this city!
I hate Nineveh!
And you know, DC when I was growing up  um, was you know, Chocolate City.
It was the murder capital of the world.
Choppa City.
And my mom worked in DC Public Schools, so we would ride in DC, and I would duck  in the back of the car.
I would duck in the back of the car cause I didn't wanna get shot.
That's how scared I was of DC.
So I didn't wanna live th-  I didn't wanna live anywhere near DC.
We moved to Upper Marlboro briefly,  but  in Upper Marlboro from two thousand eight to two thousand thirteen,  God started really moving on my heart to  give me a burden for the city  that I didn't wanna be in.
And my heart got softened toward it  to come and help  and be a part of the solution.
And so  after much prayer,  fasting, consideration-  We some praying, fasting people.
Uh, my wife and I  uh, felt led by God to move from Upper Marlboro into DC,  and that's when I resigned from my position as the youth  minister  at RD-WORK-3  in two thousand thirteen  because God wanted me to come to DC  and uh, start RD-WORK-5  um, here in RD-WORK-5.
I didn't know it would be in RD-WORK-5 back then,  but I knew that God wanted me to be  out of Maryland  and  in-  I wanted to- he wanted me to live where I lead.
And so we do live here in the community  um, about three minutes from um, RD-WORK-5 where we worship.
So  that's how we got to DC.
We came in twenty thirteen.
Uh, we were able to move here,  and God miraculously worked it out.
We were able to sell our home  and move here  and start doing ministry,  and ever since then, we just been kind of  seeing God's Grace.
Um, people coming into the church.
You know, we're able to help people physically and spiritually.
We help feed people,  give people clothing.
We help people with their bills.
Uh, of course we share the Gospel of Jesus Christ with them.
We've seen people's lives change.
People have gotten saved.
People have-  that were on drugs,  people that were selling drugs, people that were in criminal activity,  they're now, you know, tryna live their lives for Jesus.
We have some people that have  re-entered into society recently who come to the church,  and then we have some very affluent people that come to this church.
So we're just a big hybrid of um,  social economic  goodness    from different  stages and areas of the DC Metropolitan area.
And everybody gathers in the gym in RD-WORK-5.
And the one thing we have in common is that we love God, and we-  we have a love for each other.
Even though we may have different skin tones, we may have different bank account  state- uh, statuses,  we may live in d- different size houses,  we all have the same God, and so  RD-WORK-5 is  the vision that God gave me  when he- when I felt him leading me to leave  RD-WORK-3 and come to DC.
And w- we've been worshipping  at RD-WORK-5  um, in RD-WORK-5  since June twenty fourteen,  so  about a year and half now.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Mm, yeah.
Yeah, um, we ended up in Northeast because-  it was really- really full circle.
Um,  remember um, when earlier in the conversation I-  I mentioned how I went to school at l-  um, RD-SCHOOL-6- Down the street from where I live now.
So  when I was three years old, I went to RD-SCHOOL-6,  and then when my sons- I have twin sons by the way.
I didn't say that earlier.
So my wife RD-NAME-2,  we have twin sons, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2, so  RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2 were three  when we moved to DC.
So  it was really full circle.
Sometimes God does that.
He'll-    so it's kind of those markers of his testament.
RD-NAME-2 you were three when you were in this land.
If- your sons are three, living in the same community.
So  um,  I had a friend that mine that lives  on Fifty Fifth Street in Northeast.
Um,  he- he's my music engineer.
He was um,  mixing and mastering my music,  so basically he was  making it sound very polished  so that I could um,  you know,  uh,  make good quality music.
He started getting sick  um, on Fifty Fifth Street,  and so we uh,  took him in to our home in Upper Marlboro  and his family,  and uh,  we just started growing our relationship.
I was doing RD-WORK-8 projects on Fifty Fifth.
Just  kept coming back to the Lincoln Heights area, kept coming back to Lincoln Heights area.
And that's at the same area I didn't wanna live in, but that's where I was from.
I had went to school here.
And I just- I didn't want my family around the violence that can be in the neighborhood and the trouble.
I wanted to live a nice cushy life.
Why can't I do ministry where it's all nice and peachy keen?
And God just started breaking my heart, breaking my heart, breaking my heart.
In two thousand seven,  just before I got married,  I went to Australia  uh, and visited Hillsong Church in Australia,  in B- Baulkham Hills-  Baulkham Hills- Bauk- Hills.
You can look up Hillsong.
You'll find it.
It's a big church in Australia.
And there I had a vision  that  I was in DC and not in Upper Marlboro  helping people.
And so that was the start of it.
From there I started getting promptings from God in my prayers,  other revelations.
Some of them came and prophesied to me  about being bold, to go where God called me.
I'm like,  how do you know what God was telling me?
Get out of here Prophet!
And a prophet is a person that hears from God and can give you  a direct message  if you don't know what a prophet is and you're listening to this recording.
So after all this confirmation, I was like, okay, God,  work on this hard heart cause I still don't wanna go.
And what did it for me was my friend.
You know, we took him in for four months, his wife and his daughter.
We became their God- his G-  his daughter's Godfather and mother,  and God just softened my heart for the city.
And uh,  from there,  God began to move me out of the comfort of working in,  you know, the mega church in Upper Marlboro, RD-WORK-3, an awesome beautiful church.
Um,  but God had called me  out of comfort  into this place.
And by God's Grace, we moved to Northeast  because it's where I w-  was- was when I was a kid.
It's where  God told me specifically he wanted us to go in Ward Seven.
We didn't wanna go in the nice part of Northeast.
Like when I say nice part I mean down New York Avenue where  you see bigger houses.
We wanted to be right in the middle of  the challenges in- in the community.
And by God's Grace we do have some amazing people in our neighborhood.
You know, our neighborhood's not all  what the media portrays it to be,  but we do have some elements unfortunately of people who  do things they shouldn't do.
Um,  and so God wants us right there  to be a light in the midst of this- the darkness that surround us.
So that's why we moved here into Ward Seven, right here,  right off East Capitol Street.
And um,  that's where we are.
And so um-  so yeah, that's- that's-  that's why we  came to this neighborhood.
Um, not to be the dun dun da dun!
Saviors of- hey, we're here to save Ward Seven!
No, Jesus is here to save Ward Seven.
We're just vessels that he's using  to- to be light in a dark place, to be salt where there's no flavor.
Or there's a lack of flavor.
There are many churches here in the neighborhood, and we been connecting with them.
But um, we know God called us here to come along side them and help.
So we don't think we're the big dog coming in.
We don't think we're the super super church.
We don't think we know it all.
We just wanna come along what God's already been doing and- and  play our part.
You asked me another question.
What was the s- Oh yes!
So I didn't know where we would be worshipping  with RD-WORK-5, so we were just-  I went to- knocked on doors.
I asked principals.
I said, hey,  would you mind a church being in here?
Yes I would.
Mm-hm, so you know.
Lot of- A lot of people didn't want a church in their building for different reasons.
They got to be responsible for them if something breaks,  blase  blah.
The- so it's- in DCPS, it's all about whatever the principal says,  and principals just weren't responding to emails, phone calls, in person  visitations.
Um, and so, I just began praying.
I would drive around Ward Seven DC and just pray.
I'd say, God, will you just show me?
Just show me God, where.
So I got a phone call from a friend  who used to uh, pastor a church that was in RD-WORK-5.
Um, and they stopped having services in uh, RD-WORK-6  RD-WORK-4 back in two thousand twelve.
And he said, hey RD-NAME-2, I know you're looking for a building, man.
Well have you thought about RD-WORK-5  RD-WORK-6  on Benning Road?
I said, you know,  I had thought about it, but  man,  I guess I didn't think enough about it.
So  came in,  met with the interim director at the time,  and uh, did a- did a walk through,  prayed about it,  and felt the peace of God to- hey, say,  we're gonna be here.
And we've been here since June twenty fourteen,  and uh, I'm so glad we're here.
Cause it's a great place, and um-  you know, great staff, great people.
And everybody knows what it- where it is.
You know, it-  some of the buildings we were looking for,  kind of in the cut-  or we were looking at rather- were like, in the cut, kind of off to the side.
The school was up in the- in the neighborhood  but  RD-WORK-10- whenever I tell people we worship in the RD-WORK-2- oh, RD-WORK-4?
Oh yeah, man!
I know where that is!
That's by the police station.
You know, my cousin  got locked up.
Just joking.
But  people- people say things-  people know where this is.
It's a landmark.
It's a staple in the community.
And it's so many families here that we get to partner with, so we get to do  some different um,  things for the kids here.
Um,  during the holidays, you know,  back to school stuff we try to partner with the RD-WORK-2.
So it's- it's so great to-  w- when you come to a community to try to help families,  and you got so many h- families that already come to the building that you worship in, it's like,  thank you God.
People already here to help.
Don't have to go knocking on doors.
They already coming in.
So  that's how we got to RD-WORK-5, and  that's how RD-WORK-5  got started and-  You know, wanted- we wanted to come along side churches that are already doing work here  and just do our part.
And we wanted to live where we lead.
We didn't wanna live somewhere  else.
We wanted to be right in the midst  of  where  um, the community is, where the people are that we wanna serve and help, so.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I know.
That's- that's the- that's the  common thing with so many of my friends.
We say that.
You know, I haven't been to this monument, I haven't been to that.
I would ride past it, but to actually  catch the Metro and go do a day  in DC?
No.
It's sad, isn't it?
I have not been a tourist in my own city.
Um,  I haven't,  and it's- it's sad.
I think because  it's so close,  the awe factor's not there.
I have been to some of the museums and things like that like the Holocaust Museum.
I been to the  Air and Space, the Smithsonian, things like that.
But  like, I haven't made it to some of the ones I really wanna get to.
Like, I haven't been to the Martin Luther King one yet.
You know?
Um,  I haven't like,  been at the White House.
I've drove-  driven- you know, driven past it so many times, but-  like, this-  well I've driven past the Martin Luther King statue.
Like, yo, that's what's up.
But the monument- but like,  the tourist thing is not  there  for me.
But w- I probably should do that.
It's getting kind of  cold now, but I probably should do it.
Oh yeah?
Oh cause everything's lit up.
Yeah, yeah yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Oh, wow.
It was different.
Yeah yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
Mm.
Oh yeah.
Outing.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah, that'd be good.
I should wait, right?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah yeah.
Um,  yeah, so being in the community, doing ministry out-  we do a lot of outreach,  um,  w- and basically  we'll um, give away groceries,  uh, give away lunches,  uh,  answer biblical questions from um, a- a  PA system outside.
Um,  and- and so one of the instances that comes to mind-  there was a lady- We were on Minnesota Avenue in front of the Unity Health Care Center, and uh, I was on the back of a- a Uhaul truck that we rented  to uh,    haul the gas generator that was powering the sound system outside.
So we turned the back of a pickup into a stage.
We were facing um,  a kind of hot spot area  where, you know, a lot of people hang out.
It's been prone to have some criminal activity happening.
And so we intentionally pointed these speakers right  toward the liquor store, the bus stop, the McDonalds.
And we were like, hey,  we giving away some gift cards  if you- if uh- if I can answer your question  about the Bible.
So we did like a sweepstakes where we um-  you had to write down a question  about-  from the B- the-  about the Bible that you wanted me to answer,  and if it was  p- picked- I would randomly select, and you'd get a gift card.
And we gave away thirty five gift cards  to help people,  in addition to about three hundred lunches that day.
And um,  one lady in particular,  she was just heckling me.
She was heckling me like,  oh,  oh he's scared to answer my question,  my blankety blank question.
Oh he blankety blank out of his mind.
And so she was just kind of  like heckling, heckling.
I could tell she was  you know, high on some type of drug.
And um,  so  I talked to her  and basically found out that  her-  her brother was killed.
Um,  and her question was you know, how do you forgive somebody  who had your brother killed?
Um, cause I wanna go kill the girl-  that- the-  my brother's ex girlfriend who had him killed.
And so I talked to her about God's forgiveness and how God has forgiven her of so much,  and that God's wrath has not come down upon her  to the point of bringing her to death  and that he's given her time to repent.
And so as  you have been forgiven, you should also forgive.
And um,  from there, one of our- one of our leaders prayed with her, and she just started crying.
And just- just to see  the love of Christ in-  w- when the-  when the Bible's articulated and you see  God's word seep into a hard heart  and turn that person,  change the way they think.
You know the- the word repent means to change the way you think.
Um, w- another time we- we were on Division Avenue  at Marvin Gaye Park.
We partner with McLain Bible Church, and w- uh- we do a big  carnival- back to school carnival and concert  every year.
We've done it for three years now, so  got like,  uh, moon bounce and rock climbing walls and  pony rides and  just turned Marvin Gaye Park into a carnival  and a concert.
And um,  in the middle of the concert  I was sharing the-  the message of Jesus Christ, the love of God,  and um,  it was a drunk guy  uh, who was like-  I said, you know the bad news is we all deserve to go to Hell.
And he was like, no, no no!
Not the babies, not the babies.
Not the babies.
He was shaking his cane at me, and some people were looking at me upset because  you know the- the Bible teaches us that we've all sinned and we all deserve God's judgement,  even the little ones.
We all deserve God's judgement.
That's bad news.
But the good news is- so when I shared the good news,  that- that he gives us a way  to escape the judgement we deserve by putting our faith in Jesus Christ,  um,  you know that guy will raise his hand for salvation.
So  to see people  who are very hostile toward  God,  in a moment,    God does something in their conscience  where they are- they are awakened.
You know the Bible says, awake O sleeper,  rise from the dead  that I may shine upon you.
You see somebody's conscience get awakened, like    I was dead in my sin,  I was lost in my sin, and now  I'm made alive in Christ.
I can see him.
Man.
I w- Uh, that song, Amazing Grace,  how sweet the sound.
Save the rest like me.
I once was lost, but now am found, was blind  but now I see.
Like, that song is amazing because that what's happens  when a person is converted, when a person goes from being a sinner,  on their way to hell,  to a person who is a saint  on their way to heaven  because of their faith in Jesus Christ.
So,  those are some of my golden moments,  seeing people's  eyes open to understand who God is and-  and to have an opportunity to talk about the misconceptions.
One last thing I'll share is a woman  uh, spoke to me recently and  thought that she would go to hell because she use marijuana,  you know, for medicinal purposes, and I was explaining to her that you know-  you know,  you didn't earn your way into heaven.
You know, salvation's a free gift, and so she thought she was going to hell because she had hepatitis C,  and her doctor prescribed her to take-  drink marijuana  uh, in doses.
And uh, I said, you know the use of medication  to help your body-  if you're not abusing that medication, you're not in sin.
You know, we take percocets and all that kind of stuff, but if you're abusing percocets, you're damaging your temple.
And the Bi- The Bible says your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit.
So just  breaking down misconceptions that people have like, if I do this thing, I'm going to hell.
If I do that thing, I'm going to hell.
You know, versus  no you've done enough to  earn your way into hell already.
But when you confess with your mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord and believe in your heart God raised him from the dead,  you are saved  by faith in Jesus Christ.
It's- it's- it's a undeserved gift  God gives you.
You didn't earn your way into heaven anyway.
And then when you are saved,  God leads you on that path of righteousness, and it's not that you're not going to make mistakes or fall into sin,  but God, his job is to help you  stay up and stay focused  as you keep walking.
So explaining things like that to people  who think that  they can like lose their salvation or  fall off the salvation ship    because,  oh,  I did this.
Well I guess I deserve to go to hell now.
Well you've always deserved to go to hell.
But  that's the bad news.
The good news is Jesus died once and for all, so you don't have to.
So when we explain that to people,  and to see those misconceptions break down, those are my golden moments.
Those are my golden moments cause people are awakened to    truth.
It's like, ah, I get it now.
That makes sense.
You know?
So.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah yeah yeah.
Yeah.
You know, I- I-  go go music had to grow on me because  growing up as a kid,  uh, I remember being in- in RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School  and hearing um,  Doing da butt.
You know, Spike Lee's um, School Days, and I was like, that's tight.
So you know,  that was hot.
But um, you know, EU, that's, you know, shout out to them.
But um,  um,  it was just good  to  to- to really  experience a unique sound  from our city.
Um,  and then as I  got older, go go music  started not being so original.
It was just  taking  hip hop or rap music  and just  repeating chants, repeating chants, repeating chants, repeating chants.
Repeat this rap hook.
Repeat this rap hook.
I'm'a repeat this rap hook.
And it just started losing its  um,  creativi-  creative edge and a- and original edge to me.
I really like you know, Chuck Brown.
He- he has some original music.
You know,  um, but some of the newer bands just weren't really doing it for me.
And then um,  then I got exposed to gospel go go music.
So, they call it three g.
And gospel go go is so cool to me  um, because  you have people,  so- so you have  um,  American culture,  then you have, you know, hip hop culture which is a subculture.
Um, and then you have go go culture, which is also a subculture of American culture.
Then you got gospel go go culture.
And so gospel go go culture are people who are saved.
They love Jesus Christ,  but their music,  um,  it- it-  it's a genre  style  of go go  but it's- it's gospel music.
And just  the worship of God- worshipping God to the congos and the timbales.
So I say that to say  go go  is a unique flavor,  and it goes through its moments.
Like right now  go go is kind of in a dry spell right now.
Not a lot of people like it.
But it's kind of like when I used to eat chicken.
I'm a pescatarian now, but when I would eat chicken, I would eat Chick-fil-A all the time.
And I would eat Chick fil- chicken Chick-fil-A all the time  to the point I got tired of it.
But then  after two weeks of no Chick-fil-A,  I want that chicken again.
I'm'a go  back to that chicken.
So as much as people  like go go then don't like it.
Some like it then don't like it.
This is the one place you can go to get go go,  so when you wanna like it again, it'll be here waiting on you.
But yeah, um,  go go in of itself, it can be very misogynistic.
It can be very explicit.
Uh, a lot of profanity,  just like, you know, hip hop music,  uh, which it-  which a lot of the  go go bands get their  hooks from.
Not a lot of original stuff,  just  take something from a rapper  and repeat it repeat it, make a chant, repeat it, repeat it.
Make your booty bounce!
Repeat it, repeat it, repeat it.
Versus the gospel go go music, they w- they would take some Christian music  and do some things.
And I've seen some gospel g- gospel go go bands do original music too.
So  I do like go go music  um, but some times, I get tired of it when it's not original enough.
Every song sounds the same.
Gotta be creative if you wanna keep attention  long time, that's what I say.
Yeah, I love- I love mumbo sauce.
It's very sweet.
I think it's like a mixture of-  Uh, what is it?
It's-  dang , somebody told me before.
Somebody made mumbo sauce  for me one time at a church I was at, and I said, wow, you actually made it.
It's like mustard and something- you don't think mustard's in it.
Something's in it that I didn't think was in it.
It's very sweet.
It's very  very unique.
And I think the Pope,  uh, somebody tweeted that the Pope  will be asking for some mumbo sauce while he's here in DC.
I thought that was funny.
But um,  again, if it's the only place you can go to get it,  where will you go to get it?
So I do like mumbo sauce and,  uh, although I don't eat chicken anymore, I don't eat any land animals at all,  uh, salmon is my chicken,  so  I will whip up some mumbo sauce on some salmon in a heart beat.
And that will be my lean protein  with some mumbo sauce.
Mm-hm.
Favorite book.
Um, other than the Bible,  that's probably like  a given, right?
Other than the Bible,  my favorite book  I would say is, um,  man there's so many books I read.
It's kind of hard to say my favorite.
I think  my favorite book  would have to be  one of my leadership books.
Um, I love leadership reading,  and I'm kind of narrowing it down in my head while I'm  kind of buying for time.
So my favorite book I guess-  Mm,  see I don't wanna break any categories like,  story book  Uh mm.
Yeah.
Uh,  I think my favorite leadership book would have to be  John Maxwell's, uh,  Twenty One Irrefutable Laws of Leadership.
He goes through these laws of leadership,  and it's just so rich.
It's so rich.
He talks about the McDonald's brothers  and w- and what happened with them,  how they sold their business to Ray Kroc, and Ray Kroc was a leader  that took the McDonald's  company where it is now.
It's-  you learn so much.
And since I'm a entrepreneur  for a multi media company,  I just love reading rich material  about lead- expanding my leadership.
So John C.
Maxwell gets it.
Thank you John.
Twenty One Irrefutable Laws of Leadership,  that's probably my favorite  book.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Piece of advice.
Mm.
Piece of advice I would leave to people would be  Proverbs chapter three  verses five and six.
So  Proverbs chapter three verse five and six  says, trust in the Lord  with all your heart.
Don't lean on your own understanding.
In all your ways acknowledge him,  and he will make your path straight.
I just think that's one of the richest pieces of advice  you could give anybody.
If you trust in God with all your heart,  first of all, he's the creator of your life.
Um,  when I was a teenager, you know, you've heard my story, when I was a teenager, I was seeking-  I was aimlessly seeking my significance  in popularity, status,  clothes,  relationships,  tryna get money,  tryna help my friends sell drugs.
I was trying to find  a reason to keep living.
Even when I was suicidal in middle school, I was trying to find a reason for living.
God was that reason.
The fact that there was this su-  there's a superior being that exists  that I can't see with my eyes, but I know he's with me,  and he speaks to me in unique ways, through his word,  through- through- through  thoughts,  through different revelations he would give me.
It's like, yo,  if I trust in him with all of my heart- all of my- which is my soul, my- my everything,  and I don't  just lean on my own understanding, but I put my trust in him before what I think is best,  and in all my ways I acknowledge him in it,  he'll make my path straight.
And that's- that's true for me.
I'm- I was a l- a kid with low self esteem from Forestville,  and just to see what God has done with me  and my life from a business standpoint,  as a artist.
You know,  I performed at the Stellar Awards this year, and  you know, my music has been  on the radio, and,  you know,  I'm talking to MTV right now about putting one of my music videos on MTV.
Like, I didn't think any of that would happen.
You know?
But  I submitted my life to Jesus,  and he has  lined up my life.
So that's from a business standpoint.
Financially  all that kind of stuff.
From- from the ministry standpoint,  God showed me my purpose in life.
Mines happens to be  a pastor,  but not everybody's called to be a pastor, but if you trust in God with all your heart, you don't lean on your own understanding,  you acknowledge him, he'll make your path straight.
He'll show you which way to go.
Cause a lot of dudes I talk to in the neighborhood,  they following the block boys.
They following you know, what people around the neighborhood tell 'em  they should be doing.
They're following the bad patterns of their fathers and their uncles.
My daddy locked up, and it's all I know.
Well we got to break that cycle.
You gotta trust in the Lord and not in what your daddy's doing,  if your daddy's not doing what's of the Lord.
So I think Proverbs chapters three verse five and six would be what I would leave.
If I could give it-  if I could give any advice  that kind of sums up what-  what you- what a person should do with their life.