March twelfth, nineteen fifty four.
Mm-hm.
Indianapolis, Indiana.
Mm.
Um,  Trinidad.
North- That-  In Northeast Washington.
Since nineteen sixty six.
Um, Parkland.
Southeast DC.
And Hillcrest.
S-  Southeast DC.
That was it.
Um,  which one?
Elementary was RD-SCHOOL-4.
Junior High was RD-SCHOOL-4.
High School was RD-SCHOOL-5.
Yes.
I'm a, um, program coordinator    for a third party inspection company.
Um, both of 'em were born in Roanoke, Virginia.
R-O-  A-  N-  O-K-  E.
Virginia.
Um,  my dad was, um,  He coached, um,  basketball in high school  in, uh, RD-SCHOOL-2-  RD-SCHOOL-5 High School in Roanoke.
And my mother,  she used to work at a hotel.
I don't remember what she did.
I don't know if she was cleaning up or something.
She wasn't doing much.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
It was scary.
Because I came from Virginia where people spoke to everybody.
Everybody knew everybody.
I didn't know nobody and nobody spoke  when I got here.
Um,  The- the girls my age,  um, didn't like me because I was light skinned.
Um,  it was crazy.
It was real crazy.
I grew up in- in the n-  in the building across from me, everybody in there was real dark but pretty.
But they- I mean I can't help my skin color.
It was just crazy.
Daw.
In Parkland.
Mm-hm.
It was a bunch of kids around there.
It was a bunch of kids.
Um, we didn't jump double dutch in Roanoke.
So when I got here, that was the first thing I had to learn how to do.
And then I was better than they were so,  that was, you know, that wasn't good.
No they wouldn't let me play with them no more.
Say I took too long.
They wouldn't- Jump all day.
Played basketball and baseball.
Mm-hm.
I was a tomboy.
Mm-hm.
Oh, that was in school.
We used to beat everybody.
And  my thing was- at the time,  most of the girls on the team were much taller than I am,  so I could get to the basket better cause I could go under them  and get to the basket.
It was good.
Mm-hm.
No, my dad, he rolled out when I was about three.
He was gone.
Yeah my mother remarried in, um,  sixty five I guess.
And  my stepfather lived in Roanoke, but he moved to DC,  and  I saw him one day and told him where my mother was.
Big mistake.
They got back together, and then we moved up here.
Mm-hm.
It was Stepfather.
Let me see.
I got there in the sixth grade.
I left there when I was  eighteen.
Seventeen.
Eighteen.
Yeah, about eighteen.
Mm-hm.
No.
I didn't even know  anything about marijuana til I was, like, eighteen.
I think I smoked my first joint when I was eighteen.
Didn't even know what it was.
Didn't even know what I was doing.
On the basketball court.
Cause the fellas was doing it.
Ju- I was one of the guys.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um, RD-SCHOOL-1.
Mm-hm.
Middle school was difficult for me because I was, I guess  in a way,  um,  more mature than the kids my age.
I wanted to dress nice.
They were wearing jeans and all of that stuff, and I liked to wear skirts and stockings.
And the boys liked  girls with  dresses on versus pants at the time.
And then you had the- the little boys that always wanted give you a jacket if you had his name on it.
Your name on it, that mean you go together.
Now if you pull the stitching out and his name is gone, he see you-  it's no conversation.
We broke up.
We don't need talk about it.
You know?
Or we put his name on our tennis shoes.
You get tired of him, you take it off.
We broke up.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But see, when you see me with the girls with the dresses and the- and the stockings on- see we wore nineteens then.
You wanna see a pair?
I'm just kidding.
We wore Nineteens and Miller ?.
That was the style then.
So  they look better with a skirt on.
And see everybody  wore 'em,  you know?
But they look better with a skirt on.
See when you bow legged and you got the fish nets on,  they got the pretty legs, see?
That- it worked.
And then when you see me on the basketball court, it's like, that's not the same little girl with the long hair that we saw earlier looking prim and proper.
Now she done change into something else.
You know?
Go out, fight with the boys.
We did everything.
I w- I was damn good.
Basketball, fighting and basketball- uh, baseball.
Oh, Lord.
This girl, RD-NAME-4,  she went to g-  her and her family was  in the military, and she left.
And she had this boyfriend that would carry her books everyday, so I said, sure he can carry mine, too.
So she left and  RD-NAME-2 w- his name was RD-NAME-2.
He would carry my books to school.
Now I lived at Twenty First and Mississippi.
I was going to  RD-SCHOOL-2 at Fourth and Mississippi.
We had to walk.
She came back.
I heard you was messing with my boyfriend, and pushed me.
Me and this girl fought every day for four days.
From Twenty First and Mississippi to Fourth and Mississippi, every day.
And every time I would see her, because she had pushed me, I would go push her again and we would start fighting.
And we would fight almost twenty blocks.
Who you think?
Me.
That's why I kept- I could intimidate her, you know?
Which now was wrong but,  I knew she couldn't beat me.
Mm-hm.
And actually,  from then- one of-  That had to be n-  thirty years ago, forty years ago.
I got a, um, text from him  couple months ago,  and he said,  um,  he said something  about the fight.
I said-  N-  yeah, you was fighting on my ex-girlfriend, RD-NAME-2.
I said, no I was whooping her ass every day.
He said, that's what I remember.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
My mom, my sister, and my brother.
Then my mom had another baby, so I had two brothers and a sister.
No, I was next to the youngest.
See after me, I was the baby for-  forever.
I had a older sister, older brother, then me.
Then she had my little brother  when I was about thirteen.
Oh yeah, that's my buddy.
Not too good.
But I had a messed up stepfather.
You know, he wanted to play his little games at night with me, and  I just told- I had a girlfriend that was being,  um,  sexually abused by her father.
And I wasn't going through that.
I just told him, I will cut your  heart out and have it laying on the table when my mom get home from work at midnight.
I ain't going through this with you.
So I called and told my dad, and my dad called him and told him,  if you touch my daughter again,  I'm coming down there just to kill you.
I'll be back in Milwaukee before your last breath.
Mm-mm.
Not really.
I'd say maybe ten years.
Yeah, maybe about ten years.
Because he was-  he was messing with the lady that used to bring him home every day.
And me and my brother- and they'd be  drunk when they get there and me and- sometime me and my brother used to rob him and give my mother the money,  his paycheck.
That's what we did.
My older brother,  he got married young  and left.
And that marriage didn't last too long, and then he ended up out there on the streets on crack.
Still on crack.
He's sixty three years old.
And, um,  we still talk but we had some differences  after my sister passed away last year  because that meant that I had to be out in Bowie every day.
Cause my mom and my sister lived together, so I had to come out there and take care of my mom while my sister was going through what she was going through.
And my brother wasn't doing his part.
So we had some altercations.
Uh,  Love him to death.
That's my best friend, man.
We were never close  becau- Uh, the age difference.
Um, he's a boy.
I'm a girl.
And I met my husband when I was seventeen.
I was with him from seventeen til he died when I was fifty four.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, she's living with my younger brother.
N- No, he lives in Beltsville.
Mm-hm.
No.
Mm-mm.
RD-SCHOOL-2 was a good school.
We had good teachers except for, um,  my history teacher.
In my senior year,  you know, um,  anybody could teach you Black History then.
I had a white  teacher teaching me Black History, so I told her, you can't tell me nothing.
You're white.
You never lived in the black community.
I really don't like you, and I'm not coming in here anymore.
So she failed me, and I needed  that  class to graduate.
So I had to graduate from summer school  because of her.
When I told my  summer school teacher why I was there because they were like,  you got all these As and Bs and Cs.
How you get a F in Black History?
And I told 'em why.
They said, we gonna give you a A.
Don't come back here no more.
It was just like that.
And see, the only white people that went to RD-SCHOOL-2 came from Bolling Air Force Base.
You know?
And  it wasn't a real violent school.
We didn't have a lot of fights.
It was no big problems there.
School was good.
It was fun, and you learned, you know.
So  I don't know.
I don't know what happened to these kids now.
I loved music.
Because we had a good choir, and we used to sing at different schools and go to different places and  got breaks from school, you know.
See, I can't sing, girl, but I was on the choir.
Hanging out with everybody else.
Did it for three years, yes I did.
You got breaks.
Music and lunch.
Yes.
I- I- I can't say I didn't like English, math, and all of that.
I was good at that too.
I hated history.
I mean, what's your point?
They dead.
It's over.
Why you gonna tell me about it?
Put that drama in my life?
I don't care.
That's the way I felt.
I really felt that way.
I mean now I understand why we need history.
But then I didn't.
And, uh, my mother wasn't-  my mother I think she grad-  dropped out in like the ninth grade, so what was she gonna tell me?
My stepfather was crazy.
He told me, I don't care how good you are in school.
I'm not sending you to college.
So I basically had to fend for myself, um,  from the first day in DC on.
Because he lied and told us, we gonna move to DC.
Y'all going to private schools.
RD-NAME-2, you- I know you gonna need a car, so you gonna have your own car, and this that and all- we ready to go to DC.
That nigga worked out in, um,  They called it Children's Center at the time, in Laurel, where bad kids went when they had problems.
That's where they stored bad kids.
And his thing to get me to straighten up was,  you gonna end up out here where I work.
And I'm like, shit.
And that's where- and, you know, n-  all the government would supply all the k- uh, bad kids with their clothes out there.
That nigga thought I was gonna wear that.
From the- m- from the-    the plaid shirts and plaid pants and     So I had to keep a connection with my dad to get money to wear nice clothes.
And then when my sister graduated from high school  and got a job, she bought my clothes.
You know, cause my mother wasn't making that much.
So,  it was crazy.
Moved in with my boy- my husband.
I met him, um, this guy, RD-NAME-4 and his brother RD-NAME-2,  they used to hang over my girlfriend's house.
They used to always say, you so pretty.
Why you don't have no boyfriend?
I told 'em, I don't even like men.
They ain't right.
So one of 'em said, if I introduce you to a guy that make good money,  got his own house, got his own car,  that just  looking for somebody,  you wanna meet him?
I'm like, okay.
So that's how I met him.
And when I first met him, I was scared of him cause he was drunk all the time.
My husband's smoking weed and  drinking wine.
And they- when they go to the liquor store, they do- they go- It was three of 'em.
RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2,  and RD-NAME-2.
You would think they'd go in there and get  three bottles of wine.
They go in there and get nine of 'em.
Three for RD-NAME-2.
Three for RD-NAME-2.
Three for RD-NAME-2.
And all three of 'em on a Friday probably made a lot of money.
And that's who I hung out with.
And I stayed with him-  Let me see.
I had my daughter when I was twenty two.
We got married when I was twenty six.
Been together ever since.
When I left where?
Oh, we lived on Florida Avenue.
Florida Avenue Northeast.
RD-ADDRESS-5-  What was that?
RD-ADDRESS-10, wasn't it?
When I moved there, the house didn't have a shower.
The house was old,  and he used to always say, well why you always gotta go out with your friends?
I said, fix this house up like you want me to be here then.
Girl, what I say that for?
I looked up, they was tearing the house down.
We was moving out.
He had gutted.
E-  Plumbing, electrical, everything was just  taken out of the house and all new stuff put in.
All new furniture, everything.
Now you gonna stay in the house.
I said, a little bit.
Always had a nice car,  you know.
He was a good guy.
Mm-hm.
He was the best.
He was the best for me anyway.
I mean, he wasn't perfect.
He was perfect for me.
I mean, I never-  You know he was one of the type, when we were just dating, he'd call me, say, okay it's payday.
Come on, what- what do you need?
Are your bills paid?
What do you need to do?
And I'm'a- you know, I was working too.
I'm good.
I think he liked the fact that  he h-  he already had,  um,  kids, and  I didn't have any.
Mm-hm.
Are you kidding me?
I didn't do nothing.
I was raped.
Let me tell you, that was the most scariest thing to tell somebody because I felt like if you  have a baby, we should plan this together.
You know?
And, when I found out that I was pregnant- Now I was on birth control.
I don't know what happened.
But anyway, I went for a physical, and they told me I was pregnant.
So I left the doctors, went to the liquor store, got me a half a pint of Hennessy,  put it in a cup,  and all then-  bout that much chaser, and I drunk it, so I could t- have the- t-  just tell him, you know.
You pregnant?
Oh my God, I got to go call and tell the boys.
With my baby?
Y- rea- are you kidding me?
I mean he was so happy.
And I'm sitting here, like why am I drunk then?
You know?
It was just-  that man loved me.
I mean anything I did was fine, long as it was beneficial to the family.
Me having his baby was just the ultimate.
Only thing he said,  just make sure it's not a girl.
I couldn't help it.
It was a girl.
And sh- her mother.
And it's just been crazy ever since.
I mean he just-  I don't care.
I could be on the phone, like, I was talking to my mom one day, and I said, mom,  you know they got white Christmas trees out now?
I n- I need to get me one of these, but they so expensive.
He say something like,  get off the phone, I'm'a buy you one.
Ma, I got to go.
You know.
Or I come home, RD-NAME-2, there's a new car- when the Cougar first came out?
I was like, it's a new car out, and I sure could use one.
He said, well wait til the kids come home.
We'll go get one.
He didn't even know what it looked like.
I went got me a black on black  Cougar.
He was just good.
We were good together.
Um, nineteen seventy  four was when the Cougar came out.
Mm-hm.
Um, that's when we s-  It started going into the drug selling.
Um,  but my kids weren't allowed to go  away from hollering distance.
You know?
Um, like I said, he had the two kids and,  um,  they-  I w-  I was with him like four years before my daughter was born.
So I'm tryna mould them into what they needed to be cause they was bad as I don't know what.
But    it was just a lot going on.
Everybody partied out in front of they house, and  all the k-  That was the village raising the kid?
I r- I grew up in that-  that  neighborhood.
I see my neighbor's kids doing something wrong, beat they ass, call they mama.
She'd get 'em,  and to this day, they still call me and say, thank you for being who you were.
You know?
I tell her, you telling-   if your kid come in my house and they do something wrong with my kids, I'm gonna beat them altogether.
If I can't touch your kid, keep 'em out my house.
That's the way we did,  you know?
And it worked for us because,  um, as the years went on on Florida Avenue,  uh, the drugs got worse,  the kids- every time you turn the TV on, everything on the news- that's when they were killing five hundred kids a year in the city.
Just right here in DC.
Every kid looked like my children,  my boys.
And I'm like,  oh Lord, now I got to move.
I mean I remember nights,  I'd be- We'd be up in the, um,  arch  of the bedroom,  and the gunshots were so close, me and my husband both would hit the floor.
It was terrible.
And, um,  what was that night?
Two thousand  three or four I think,  that's when we moved to Southeast.
They ain't no ambulances, no nothing.
But,  um, the city was in an uproar.
I even still remember like it was yesterday when King got killed, when everybody went up  Eighth Street and,  um,  broke into everything, and  I mean, just tore up the black neighborhoods.
They did not go up Wisconsin Avenue and Connecticut Avenue and  do-  taking nothing from them white people  that they say killed King.
Why are you tearing up your own neighborhood?
Then they can't even get to the store.
They got to go across town.
They ain't go no car.
Tryna get to the grocery store, tryna get to the cleaners, tryna get to wherever they needed to go.
Cause they tore up they own stuff.
Everybody had free liquor.
Everybody had free everything.
My husband said, y'all better not bring none of that stuff in here.
You know, we got boys in here.
We gotta teach them right from wrong.
It was terrible.
I mean people was bragging about,  I got all new living room furniture.
I got all the liquor you need.
They was selling liquor on the corner.
They was selling liquor on Sundays.
All of this from  King getting killed.
It was crazy.
You couldn't come out the house after five o'clock  unless you had a pass that you on your way to work  or you went to jail.
They had all the military men staying in our gyms.
You know, we j- we- we couldn't even take gym for months and months and months because  that's where the military men slept.
They're monitor the streets after five o'clock  w- we not supposed to be out there.
It was-  It was a process.
You know .
And then you look around, you be like,  damn.
Some good looking men up in there, and we can't go in there and play with 'em?
With benefits.
Yes.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yeah, but  the only thing that I- that really stands out in my mind as far as, um,  prejudice,  my dad took me,  my mom, my sister, and all of us to the beach.
And they said everybody could come in there- no.
Nobody's coming in there but my mom.
My mom is  part Sicilian so she looks white.
So  when they said that,  my daddy got mad and spit on the man.
The man hit my daddy,  and my daddy commenced to try to kill him.
They locked my dad up.
We had to call my grandmother come get us from the beach.
I don't remember,  um,  white and black water fountains.
I don't remember having to sit in the back of the bus.
That was before my time.
Even being born nineteen fifty four, it sound like a lot of stuff was going on, but I was never  around it.
Because all my m-  all the women in my family look white, and they had the blackest men you ever seen in your life.
All of 'em.
I'm like,  all my aunts got jet black men.
And then they stand there just as fuzzy white looking as they could be.
And people thought  that, um,  my mom was white and she was dating a bunch of black men.
So therefore, a lot of kids in the neighborhood, we were not allowed to play with.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
That woman down there got them niggas hanging all up in there.
I don't want my kids playing with them half  breed kids.
I said, we weren't half breed though.
My brother is your complexion.
My older brother- my younger brother is  darker than me,  and my sister was darker than me.
So how we biracial?
You know?
It was crazy.
But that was Virginia.
The common wealth.
Mm-hm.
It was crazy.
People just didn't want us to play with their children  or the white people would let us play with their children.
We ain't wanna play with them.
It was just  crazy.
So  it just g- I remember a point in time when we only  hung out with family.
On Saturdays, everybody went to Grandma's to get their hair done.
She was a hairdresser.
So all the little girls in the family would go up  my grandmother's house and get their hair done.
And we played all day long.
Sunday, you had to go to church.
So during the week, you did nothing but go to school and study.
That was it.
And then Mama not having a man in the house, well-  except the ones that she was dating,  um,  it was really nothing to do but  for a single mom,  we had everything we needed or wanted,  you know.
That's why  I just- you know, me and my mom didn't always have a good relationship,  but for her to be a single mom,  I  think that now at this age that I am, I respect the fact that she was able to do what she did by herself.
Because me and my husband scuffled to raise our children.
She raised three kids by herself.
I mean, yeah, granted she had a lot of men coming and going.
Uh,  but she did what she had to do for her children,  you know.
So,  mm.
Til she married that idiot that brought us up here.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
When, uh, we moved over there.
What year was that?
That's all that was.
RD-NAME-2 I got married in nineteen eighty, okay?
You was born in what?
No, I moved on Thirtieth Street like two thousand three,  two thousand two.
Mkay.
Is that good?
And what year was that?
Oh damn.
Well maybe I moved over there in ninety.
No, ninety two or ninety three then.
Okay.
That's that.
Yeah.
It was so bad.
I mean, um,  my youngest son was selling- both my boys were selling drugs.
My daughter was around there with her camera taking pictures of the drugs to show to me and my husb-  husband.
Um, On hiding drugs in RD-NAME-2's stroller, taking her down to the corner.
It was terrible over there.
I remember one night, my son- my youngest son came in the house, and I heard him screaming.
And my husband saying,  come back here.
I want my mama.
I want my mama.
So he came in the bedroom, my husband was behind him.
He had a big bag,  and it had money, drugs, and a beeper in there.
Cause when I took the bag and dumped it on my bed, and I'm like, what is this thing?
And he said, it's a beeper.
And I said, what is a beeper?
I didn't know.
And, um, that's when I found out that's how you  contacted drug dealers, and  he said, mom, finally,  if I stop selling drugs,  the guy gonna kill me.
What guy?
So,  we went around, me and my son,  and my husband went around the guy's house, nobody opened the door.
So I took the drugs and the money and the beeper down to the, um,  narcotics unit with the police department,  telling them to please save my son.
They're gonna kill him if he stops selling drugs.
This is what he gave me,  and it was like,  eighteen hundred dollars in there.
And you know back in the day, that was a lot of m- I had five dollars in my pocket,  but I refused to s-  spend drug money  from my kids.
That wasn't a good  thing for them to see.
Well it's alright if she's spending the money too.
No, hell no, n- n- Mama ain't spend nothing.
Mama gave that to the police.
I want you to see this.
You know?
It was just  too much.
It was too much, so we decided that we wanted to move.
So one day I told my husband- I said, let me show you this house I  always wanted to live in.
They got a maid and a butler.
These were white people,  and  I-  let's just go.
I wanna sh- you to see the house.
Well girl, we rode around there, and it was a for sale sign in the yard.
And that's where I moved to.
Up here on Thirtieth Street.
And  it was something about that house.
Every time I rode past it, they had the-  the curtains open, it was beautiful in there.
And that was my dream house.
When I took my mom around there to sho- I didn't tell her where I was moving.
I said,  I want you to see the house I'm buying.
She just started crying.
She said, you always wanted that house.
Who does that?
You know, as a kid, you want this house.
As an adult, you go show it to somebody s-  So,  when we  parked the car, he went that way.
I went that way.
We met in the backyard and rolled in the grass say, we claiming this.
And I lived there for twenty two years til he passed away.
Yep.
When I found out her mother was pregnant at thirteen?
I was hurt.
She had just gradu- her mother had just graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 school,  and  the school called me.
So I told my coworker.
I said,    RD-NAME-2 pregnant.
She said, you know, RD-NAME-2 ain't doing nothing like that.
I said, this is the worst thing that can happen, so I gotta get- digest this,  and whatever else  behind it I can handle.
Well soon as I get there, RD-NAME-2 pregnant.
I mean what could I do?
I had to deal with it.
How pregnant are you?
She was about  seven months.
And  I'm like, I just saw you naked this morning.
Still wasn't show- that baby was in her back.
Looked like the day after I found out she was pregnant, everything popped out this away.
But  the day that I found out she was pregnant, I got five speeding tickets.
I was just aimlessly running through DC trying to find a doctor to take care of my grandbaby.
What was I gonna hit her for?
Baby wasn't gonna go away.
I ain't gonna hit her.
You go to jail for that.
I'm no- uh-uh.
We going to get you s- straight.
And then when the-  I remember the day that it hit me I had to raise another baby.
I was boohooing at my desk.
My coworker said, what in the world just happened?
I said, girl I'm getting ready to raise a baby.
And  the night she was born,  it was m- my daughter and I had our  first real serious conversation because I told her,  you know, black people don't give no baby away.
And I always wanted another kid, but I wasn't willing to give birth to it.
So  I said,  are you gonna keep this baby or we giving it up for adoption?
You know that baby coming here and you need to make a decision.
And she said, Ma, don't make me give my baby away.
We started crying.
Okay, we having a baby.
We gonna keep the baby.
We w- we went through our thing.
So of course, soon as the baby born,  the doctor that delivered her w-  lived in my neighborhood.
That's the only doctor I could get that-  by her being so far gone and being so young that would even  look at my daughter.
So, um,  as soon as the baby was born,  came out of my daughter into my arms.
Why you do that?
I fell in love.
I told her, I don't care what you do.
This mine, right here.
You know?
That was the prettiest baby in the world  til RD-NAME-2 came.
I'm just kidding.
But I always wanted another little girl.
Sometimes you got to be careful what you ask for.
Cause you might get it,  you know.
And  my daughter'll tell you, the first day RD-NAME-2 told me she loved me, I had to take off of work.
I got weak in the knees, girl.
I said, say it again.
I said, you ain't going to babysitter, I ain't going to work.
We just gonna love each other all day.
That's what we did.
We been in love ever since.
Right?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah I took everybody to court, and then she was on this side and me and my husband on this side.
We adopted.
Mm-hm.
Because,  first off, my daughter is-  She can be kind of  mean or  I don't know what the word to describe that thing.
But  I said she'll never get mad at me and take this baby.
Cause if she do I'm'a have her ass locked up.
Sh-  She too young to even have her shot-  M- I signed for her to get the shot.
What she gonna do with her?
So I need to protect this baby,  adopt her,  and let RD-NAME-2 know,  if you get mad at me and take this baby, you going to jail.
What else was I supposed to do?
Til you get twenty one, graduate from college, get married, whatever,  give her the lifestyle she accustomed to-  But I knew she couldn't touch the lifestyle this thing was accustomed to this, I remember going in Hecht's,  and Hecht's ain't have nothing in there she ain't already have.
I remember going in Lord and Taylor's.
L- L-  RD-NAME-2 wore the best of everything.
And then at first-  And then once RD-NAME-2 got a little older,  I would buy their clothes at- I forgot that store.
I'd dress 'em alike.
Both 'em had the same Reeboks.
Both of 'em had on their- their designer clothes.
But if I couldn't afford for one, I ain't buying for nobody.
Cause they ain't about two of them.
My girls.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Very small.
Well actually,  um, they started  doing all of this renovation and tearing down over there where I was living.
I had a beautiful home over there,  but,  you know, when they tearing down and rebuilding, you get mice.
And I'm scared to death of 'em.
I let them be homeowners.
I said, I got to go .
It was too many of 'em.
This boy would come over there and kill mice or get 'em out the house for me every day.
Every day that trap had mice in it.
I had to leave.
I'm scared of mice.
If m- too many of y'all, and it's just one of me, y'all got it.
So when I found this place, I was like, okay.
I got underground parking.
I'm right here at the elevator.
When I get off the elevator down in the garage, my car is right there.
Two bedrooms, two bathrooms.
Um, when RD-NAME-2 come home, she'll have a home that she ain't got to be afraid in as-  as I was.
And it was more building for her to come home from college  and have a decent home  to come home to,  you know.
Because I'm'a tell you I was scared to death in that house.
Them damn mice, man.
I mean, it was just like- and my son was paying a hundred and fifty dollars a week-  No, every two weeks,  for exterminator,  and it wasn't killing nothing.
I said, oh no, I can't do this no more.
I was living in the bedroom and  came home one day and the daggone mouse was climbing up the curtain.
That was it for me.
I had to go.
Hm.
I ain't care.
I said, I went through two winters with no heat.
Make sure she had what she needed.
I didn't pay my car notes.
I didn't pay my insurance.
Yeah, I paid my car notes.
I didn't have no insurance on my car.
I just wanted her-  I wanted to make sure that she had the lifestyle that she had if her granddaddy was here.
You know?
If she called and said, Grandma, I need a suit.
What I pay for that suit?
They got you in trouble.
Something like four hundred dollars for a suit,  and everybody got mad at hers cause theirs was eighty dollars, and,  you know,  I-  RD-NAME-2 always had the best of everything.
She still get the best-  You can't give RD-NAME-2 just anything.
She ain't gonna take it  cause RD-NAME-2 is used to part time quality stuff.
This thing too.
And I remember she came home, brought her little boyfriend with her one time.
He got scared cause the mice ran him out of there too.
And I did not want her to finish school and come into that envi-  I wasn't gonna stay there no way, so  that didn't make no difference.
I was done with it.
Me and RD-NAME-2 were tired of chasing mice, wasn't we?
And  you know, all my grandchildren say I love him more  than anybody else.
But RD-NAME-2 was there.
RD-NAME-2 would spend the night with me and say,  Ma, I'm'a stay with Grandma cause I don't want her in here with them mice by herself.
And he would spend the night with me every night.
And I still appreciate that because for him to be so young  and to  think like he was thinking, I needed that.
Nobody else was doing it.
RD-NAME-2 was doing it.
That's why RD-NAME-2 w-  I don't say no to RD-NAME-2.
Very s- if I don't have it, I don't have it.
But if it's something that he wants or he needs-  Me and RD-NAME-2 got it going on.
RD-NAME-3 call me and tell me she getting ready beat RD-NAME-2.
I go around there and get him.
How many times I done- don't I come around your house?
Mm-hm.
I wanted cigarettes and alcohol and took RD-NAME-2.
You remember that night?
This one right here is-  that's my heart.
The other ones don't come around.
Um,  that's the- you know, they denying themselves, you know.
Um,  every year for your birthday for the last couple years, all you wanted was a hundred one dollar bills.
RD-NAME-2 get that dollar too.
Last week, I went to David little birthday thing, they got fifty.
I don't know you.
I know them too.
Okay.
Okay.
I was gonna- I was gonna- Yeah.
But that's true too.
And you know- And then they got mad at me when my husband passed.
Okay.
We all here together.
RD-NAME-3's in Ohio.
Every weekend for two months wasn't it?
And you came home.
What was airfare round trip?
Fifty dollars?
Something like that.
So if I talked to her and she was upset, I'd tell her, okay, get you a flight home Friday night, whenever your last class this week,  after that, get you a flight, and come down here.
Then they got good to me.
I would get on the plane and go to her.
I would go to her.
And we just-  I mean,  me and RD-NAME-3 done some stuff- we went to Disney by ourself.
Had a, uh, five star room.
Had us a,  uh,  nice truck w- that we rented.
And then here come my son and his kids and their friends, and all them w-  The girls wanna s-  nah, y'all ain't messing up me and RD-NAME-2 party.
Me and RD-NAME-2 got dressed alike one night, and we was going out .
We was out eating seafood every night.
We had a ball, didn't we?
Mm-hm.
Let me tell you, since Marion Barry been gone,  out of office,  and passing,  you know,  when you  think about getting old when Marion Barry was dead.
Everything gonna be alright?
You know.
Marion Barry, if you was a teenager,  you applied for a job, you knew your kid had a job.
You don't know anymore.
He-  he made your dreams real.
You know, a lot of people wait  til they kids get to be about thirteen, fourteen.
Be like, I'll be glad when they get a little job so they can  understand the value of a dollar.
Nowadays, what are these kids doing all summer?
All these kids around here I know is out there.
They ain't have no jobs.
You ain't see kids on the street.
Everybody had a job.
They even made it where they even gave us  little,  um,  tokens to get back and forth to work  when Marion Barry was in there.
Old people get old.
They ain't worrying about whether they w- had Social Security money,  or whether or not they had Medicaid or whether they had what they needed to survive  until they died.
Marion Barry made it happen.
That's why the man came back to life the day of the month.
Everybody old in here gonna vote for him.
You didn't worry,  you know?
He took care of the young.
He took care of the old.
Ever- middle section.
You- if you  did what you had to do.
It's changed a lot.
And  half of the-  the people that work down there in the damn district building in jail.
Uh, what's his name, Kwame?
He in jail.
He was my neighbor over there on Thirtieth Street.
I used to love that man.
When I worked in the district building,  he was about the best.
He was swindling money.
Everybody's stealing money now from the government.
But at the end of the day, they don't realize how many people they're really hurting from stealing  from the government.
You stealing money from the schools.
You stealing money from the retirem-  ment plans.
You stealing money from people's Medicaid.
You stealing money that people are gonna need.
They don't care.
I mean, they really a-  I had picked Marion Barry up out the street when I was working d-   district building, I know at least four or five times.
I'd be like, Mayor, why do you keep doing this shit?
You know that's what these whities wanna see.
RD-NAME-2, call my assistant.
Tell him to get down here right away.
His assistant was Gabe.
I would call him,  and he'd be like, oh Lord,  and he would run down the steps to get Marion Barry off the street.
I mean he'd be so drunk in the morning,  open the door and fall out the damn car.
I don't know.
He shoulda been my mayor for life.
Well, at that- that was after,  um,  he went through that thing with the crack.
I'd'a been on crack too the way people treated him.
I mean,  you know, he did all he could do  with what he had to  do it with.
But people were accusing him of things that he wasn't even doing, so if you gonna accuse me, I might as well do it.
Marion Barry was the mayor  for life.
And then people like my father in Milwaukee,  but damn if he won again, well who was he running against?
You voted for him?
M- Sure did.
Mm-hm.
But people thought Marion Barry was gonna be around forever.
You know, that he would be in office forever.
Look at that pool he put up there in Parkland.
I mean  it's just stuff, so much that he did.
All the little,  um,  uh, how would I say that?
All the little places for senior citizens to go.
Like that place up there where we lived?
Right on the corner, the- The Wellness Center.
They go up there and play Bingo, have busses take 'em to Atlantic City from there.
I mean it was just a lot going on.
You don't see any of that anymore.
So now I'm old, ain't got no Marion Barry.
Guess RD-NAME-2 have to take care of me now.
An- I ain't moving up on the third floor though.
You gotta come down.
I ain't coming home.
Only neighborhood I knew about was my own because I was in the house raising children.
I'm'a-  Let me tell you something.
It's  kids out here with grownups now-  You don't remember me?
I grew up with your children.
I remember when the police came in and raided my house looking for my youngest son.
Thought well we m-  we know everybody around here.
Why we never seen- I'm in the house raising children.
I go to work.
I come home.
I'm raising my children.
I don't play outside.
You know?
And I didn't.
Everything I needed, believe me, boyfriend had it in the house.
But no need to hang outside.
I go to the neighbor's house where everybody was drinking and stuff, but I wasn't a drinker.
So I'd just go over there and sit and watch them  acting- make a fool of themselves.
Come on back in the house.
At least get to know who my kids  are hanging out with, you know?
I- I don't know people in the neighborhood.
I-  you can't even get me to name nobody in this building.
Am I lying, RD-NAME-2?
The little young guy that was on the elevator with us, if he see a box at my door he'll keep it and  knock on my door and say, here's your box, or whate- I don't ev- I don't know- I don't know that lady right over there.
I forgot her name.
Yeah I had bad neighbors on Florida Avenue.
If I wanted to cook out for my kids, I had to cook enough for the  six kids next door because they hanging over the banister all day.
You can't feed my kids, and I can't feed them.
They're hungry.
I know they are.
Because  their mother was  old.
They was on crack, and these are their kids.
The crackhead's kids.
So I had to feed everybody.
So I said, why don't we get away from here?
When I was on Thirtieth Street, I didn't deal with the neighbors.
They look alright.
I guess.
I wasn't a roll through the neighborhood type of girl.
I had so much goodies at- going on at home, I ain't need to run the street.
Oh, yes.
We got a  Walmart in DC.
Yes.
And the sad part- Okay.
I can tell you a difference is how long  H Street had so many closed down buildings  versus now, when you go down H Street, everything is a restaurant, a bar or  whatever.
You know what I'm saying?
Cause when I was,  um,  last twenty years, everything down there was  closed down.
I mean still burnt up.
People didn't have money to, um,  rehabilitate their buildings  back to where it was before  these idiots decided to tear up their neighborhood cause King died.
We even got a trolley car going now-   Then white people say, okay, the black folks found cheap houses in Maryland.
We gonna move in here and change things, and they did.
They really did.
Because    a lot of those  places on H Street- see,  where I work, we do inspections.
Say like, if you were,  um, renovating a house,  in phases, it has to be inspected.
So  that's my job.
Put the program together,  tell them this is what's going on.
Y'all need to go over there and inspect.
And s- and c-  you know, talk to the owners and the  contractors and make sure  that they're getting their work done on time.
You don't call me and tell me, okay, I'm'a get my,  um,  first inspections now and then six months later, we gonna f- get the fin- no.
You need to get this done.
I don't have time to dwell with you so.
They like to use our company because they say it's a w-  crazy woman over there who will come over there and shut you down  cause you taking too long.
It don't take all day to do nothing.
If y'all gonna be on it, and we gonna do the inspections,  you can't think that  we don't have nothing to do but sit here and wait for you.
You know.
Next week, if I get me a new client, then that mean I'm- I'm on you to finish so I can work with my new people.
I don't wanna keep working with you.
I wanna keep it moving.
That's all.
We got- we have some prop- um, actually RD-ADDRESS-3 U Street is one of our properties.
Um,  yeah.
RD-ADDRESS-7 It's beautiful up there.
Um,  I never thought-  That's another neighborhood they tore up really bad.
I mean they went on up Georgia Avenue.
Where none living there but black people.
Go up Wisconsin Avenue and hit those good stores, you know.
All y'all did was tore up at the dry cleaners and the little  stores where everybody bought their tennis shoes and stuff.
And that  neighb-  uh, H Street and U Street suffered f-  thirty, forty years.
We coulda been doing all of that stuff.
I feel good in the summer, riding down H Street, parking my car and run in,  and have me a little drink  with them white people.
Yeah.
A little mix it up.
That's who's out there.
Yes I do girl.
Girl,  let me tell you something, when Chuck Brown died people was calling me, are you okay?
I used to travel with Chuck.
I used to date the congo player, Lino Druitt.
He was the congo player with the-   with  um, The Soul Searchers.
It was so bad that when my girlfriend that used to hang with me when we'd go see Chuck-  We had Chuck over at her funeral.
They didn't even acknowledge she was dead.
They was over there with Chuck.
If they went down- whenever they went to southern Maryland, northern Maryland, New York, New Jersey, wherever,  we was there.
Loved some Chuck Brown.
Didn't even  care about nobody else.
Chuck Brown was it.
He was DC,  um, guy.
Everybody loved Chuck Brown.
And, um,  I used to work in Sabin's Record Store, where my cousin worked, on Pennsylvania Avenue, over there by your mother work.
Oh.
What's that sandwich, Subway?
Used to be Sabin's Record Store,  and I worked in there, you know how  singing groups and everybody come to the record store to promote their music and stuff,  and The Soul Searchers came in there that day.
And Lino  kept on saying, give me your phone number.
My cousin RD-NAME-2 gave him-  gave him my phone number.
I dated him like three years.
Everywhere The Soul Searchers went  I went too.
Went to school with Sugar Bear,  an-  I ain't gonna talk about him, okay.
EU.
Yup.
Back there in the day, I liked everything.
I just like music.
I love music.
Long as it's not that bluegrass and that country western, I'm there.
I love music.
Because we had so many go go bands in DC.
That was a-  um, back in my daughter's days, now, that was the only thing going on.
They go up to the Black Hole and all these other places that she went.
Um- Yeah, and my husband, he was a f-  uh, fire inspector.
He wanted to shut down everywhere my kids liked to hang out at the go go.
It was just-  I don't know.
And then when you- you're young, and you have-  you're raising kids, and you listen to what they listen to,  you wanna know what you're kids listening to.
And I liked all their music.
Cause one of my sons liked go go.
The other one liked the oldies but goodies.
And they rooms right there together.
So you know, and we h- I- I liked the oldies but goodies, but then I started listening to his, I liked his too.
And, you know, y'all know I still like y'all music.
From their generation?
Oh what's that one about cooking in the kitchen?
Girl, we did a video on me on that one didn't we?
Mm-hm.
I used to listen to a Chicago station.
That music was there before it got here.
And my God,  me and- we would turn that music on in the office.
It would be funny.
You okay?
Oh I forgot the name.
Yeah.
Dang RD-NAME-2, that was a long time ago.
Yeah.
Me too.
Especially on my birthday.
I'll listen to anything long as it ain't that hard stuff.
Like n- I can handle.
Not really.
I'll eat it.
I don't have anything against it it.
Um,  I like hot sauce.
I eat mumbo sauce.
Different.
I mean it's kind of sweet, kind of  tart,  kind of  different.
Hell no.
I would think ketchup and vinegar.
I don't know.
Can I get back to you on that one?
Mkay.
Mm-mm.
I used to go  but my kids-  The school always took 'em before I got to take 'em.
When it came to my kids, we did more going out of town stuff.
You know, Myrtle Beach and,  um,  down to my home or  ride up to New York.
Where was that I took my kids that we was laughing about the other night?
O-  Uh, Ocean City, Atlantic City, all the beaches.
We used to,  uh, almost every summer go down to, um,  I forgot that beach down there.
But we used to go down there at least  three weekends out of the month.
You know, just let the kids run.
We were always doing something,  going somewhere.
Between The Real and Wendy Williams.
Now I watch them every day, faithfully.
I like The Real and Wendy Williams because it keeps me up on whatever young folks are doing out there in California or  what  rich people do that I am not doing.
I just wanna know what they doing,  cause I can't do it.
Kim Kardashian and Caitlyn and all them.
Mm-hm.
I think I- I think I'm gonna be a man next month.
Caitlyn can be a woman.
Yup.
I'm just- I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding .
I'm just kidding.
But- But if you got enough money to turn yourself from a man to a woman, something went wrong somewhere.
With his money, he could have been anything but a woman.
Okay, I'm done.
All that money a man has,  all he could wanna be is a woman?
Shit.
I like these boots.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
You got it going on.
No you can't.
Me either.
That's my baby.
Yeah, you adopted now,  but see l-  RD-NAME-2 thinks that  I want her out my house because  I- it's something I may wanna do here.
It feel good to know I can lay down and die ,  and she can take care of herself.
You know what I'm saying?
Ain't nobody gonna do for her like I did it-  Like I do, did, or will.
You know,  all I want her to do is prove to me you got  this.
You don't need no nigga.
You don't need nothing but you.
And the money I spent to send you to college and do it f- for myself,  to do for you.
That's all I want her to do.
Be able to take care of yourself.
And  it came the hard love-  I didn't  approach her like I did her mother.
I never would,  but  this my last baby.
I got to worry about her and RD-NAME-2.
All I wanted to do-  And I didn't want her to live where she living.
I ain't like it.
It's too little.
RD-NAME-2 got seven thousand outfits in there,  and she got a closet this big.
RD-NAME-2 need a closet this-  size of this room,  and then the shoes can go back there.
You know what I'm saying?
And I just wanna know that she can take-  Because  once RD-NAME-2 taking care of- And  I wasn't gonna say this, but I'm'a tell you this, too.
If anything was to happen to me,  I ain't got to worry about RD-NAME-2 because she gonna take care of RD-NAME-2  if RD-NAME-2 falls short, aren't you?
So,  I never w-  wanted to tell you why I do what I do,  but  I just wanted you to  go out here  and learn that you can take care of yourself.
And you know how to do that,  but I needed to see it.
And to know that you and RD-NAME-2-  If I drop dead today or tomorrow, you know my health is not that good-  As long as you're doing well, he's okay.
And who been with you all weekend?
See what I'm saying?
You know,  people don't think about stuff like that, but I do.
If something happened to me,  I ain't got to worry about RD-NAME-2.
She thirty nine.
You're oldest uncle forty five.
The next one forty four.
They gonna be alright.
You are my  priority now  cause I know if you alright, he alright.
And you been doing good, but I just want you to get your shit out my house.
You understand what I'm saying though?
This girl,  she w-  I-  mm,    I don't love her more than my daughter.
I love her different.
You know what I'm saying?
But, in the same token,  she is really the last one I have to worry about.
Cause long as she  got things under control, that one right there okay.
After that, I don't care.
What else do I have to care-  care about?
You understand what I'm saying?
Now if I can get her into-  stop being afraid to drive and start working on buying herself a car.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
That's right, and if it ain't your time to die, you ain't going nowhere.
I'll take you.
That's right.
Mm-hm.
That's behind you.
Do you know you coulda died in any one of those three car accidents?
W-  but look wh-  look where you are.
God got too much stuff for you to do.
He ain't gonna take you nowhere no time soon.
Trust me.
Cause you are an anointed  baby.
Really.
And you know it.
So we ain't even gonna go there today, right?
But you know what I was- I just said to you right?
Skur.
Yes.
You got- I w- You got other things to be scared of than driving.
Hm.
I w- I wish that's all I had to be scared of.
You- Hm.
I drive.
See?
One day it's gonna hit you that everybody should drive cause  I can drive a stick shift.
I can drive a eighteen wheeler if I have to.
You never put yourself in predicament to be,  um, what's the word I wanna use?
Left behind  or whatever.
Have your own stuff.
You know, have your own car,  learn how to drive and leave the car parked outside!
Just leave it sitting.
You'll get tired of catching the bus.
You'll drive it.
Just go buy you a car.
You'll get tired of w- depending on black folks to do stuff for you.
Trust me.
You need to start thinking about that for real.
That's serious stuff.
Driving is very important.
You know?