Woodland Terrace.
I was in DC for thirty-  If I ain't mistaken I think thirty three years.
In a foster home.
In DC.
Well I was born in Prince William County, and then I left Hyattsville where's that, um,  me and my siblingses was, um,  placed in a foster home and then I went to DC and  think we went to the  DC  I think I was at the age of, um,  twelve.
I moved down to Virginia  if I ain't mistaken I- we came down to Virginia at-  in  ninety  one ?
Say nine- ninety  eight?
Yes.
I graduated fran-  Well, I went to- My elementary school was, um,  I went to RD-SCHOOL-6.
After I-  after I graduated from there, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High School.
And I graduated  from RD-SCHOOL-6.
Uh, I'm a- I'm a- I'm a union plumber.
My father was born in, uh, Rocky Mountain, North Carolina.
My mom was born in Hyattsville, Maryland,  where I was born.
My moms a, as I-  once I  got into, uh,  the life of my parents and everything, uh, my father was a gas-  gas tation-  gas st-  uh, station attendant.
My moms, come to find out, she working at the Treasury Department in DC.
And- and- and    I- I- That's when I f- f- found out,  uh,  everything was going in my parents' life where- how they was working and everything because we moved to Woodland Terrace,  which is Southeast DC, and it was great.
It- it- My thing was is, uh,  it- it-  I mean, you- you-  you skate all day, you- we sit and  played all night.
The doors could stay open.
Uh,  I had seven brothers and  three sisters,  and our- our life was-  our life was- our lives were great.
It- it w- it-  I mean we had, um-  The violence wasn't  as- as  bad as it is now.
Uh, it wa- it wa- it was-  I mean we-  neighbors was neighbors, you know what I mean?
Y- you say hi in the morning, this that and the others.
It- it- it turned out beautiful, at first.
Let's put it like that because like I said we gonna play sports, we play ball, go to school, this that and the other.
And one thing that mom and dad always said ??
strive.
try to tell us that the school was more important.
So that's- that's what we did, you know what I mean?
Um,  n- neighbor-  the neighbors- the neighborhood itself was ac- good.
You know, you had your recreation centers, this that and the other, gave us something to do.
But you always had to come home.
You always had to come home.
We'd come home and then work was first.
Cleaning our house,  getting your chores done before you even go up to the recreation centers.
So,  and that's where I learned to meet a lot of my friends, this that and the other, and, um,  it was great.
Then there was drugs.
There was drugs that what we  Set up and where it was-  is-  uh, everything is drugs, you wanna put it like that, is, uh, the drinking,  the marijuana.
It wasn't a lot of hard drugs then,  but as time progressive,  it started getting worse.
You know, your PCP, your  cocaine, this that and the other.
So s- That-  that-  um, like this-  it's-  it's ways that  me and you, I think that me talking to you  we'll never know  and we never will find out.
They- You set up there and listen to news, this that and the other, but I'm like this  it gonna happen.
It gonna keep happening because it's a market.
It's- it's-  is-  is where is that money to be made  and  you wanna say about the government, this that and the other because I'm like this I always look at it like this and I wanna be smart about it  because I- I'm not dumb and I don't think that you dumb.
You're not rich.
I'm not rich.
How I get over here  or how I get done?
Hey.
You have to have money in order to do it.
You wanna talk about the government, this that and the other, they got a part of it.
They got a part of it.
It's just like they take it- they take it away from the drug man  and they'll put it back on the market.
They hold it a little bit, this that and the other.
They just set up there and get it- get it across to what's his name, get it across  wherever it come from, this that and the other.
But  that-  that had nothing to do with our life  because see we- we being stupid and I would- I look at myself.
I like being stupid.
You get involved.
You chose to do it.
They don't let nobody set up there and say just like a child.
Your child got a mind of his own just like I have a mind of my own.
You choose to do it.
So at that-  at that point I'm like  we fail ourself.
We fail ourself.
It-   It- it- it- it- it gonna bother you.
It- it gonna bother you as being a person  because it's there.
And you think that everybody else doing it is fun, it's- it's- it's- this- this- this the happening.
This- this make me a-  this make me get in with the crowd.
It doesn't make you get in with crowd because I'm like this you get into it and you can't get out of it because for the simple fact  you- you the user.
You the user.
You ain't the one making the money, you the user.
So you set up there and you hurt- you hurt yourself, you hurt your family, you hurt everybody else because I'm like this.
Well if I ain't making it,  or I get it from you I gotta pay you back so I'm gonna kill you  because you ain't-  you ain't giving it back.
Remember- remember you just got that twenty package from me?
You know what I mean?
And now all of a sudden, well you owe me.
Well man, don't worry about it, uh,  or however you wanna say it.
Or I give it back to each other.
He can't wait cause he needed it.
He need it- he need it to maintain hisself.
So you- we wind up hurting ourself.
It's not this because, see,  in our life our parents didn't teach us that.
We went out there in the streets.
When we walked past that door we did it.
We'll come back ourself and say hey mom, hey dad.
Hey everything alright.
I ain't doing nothing wrong.
But, you know, once you pass that doorstep, you walk out there you gonna- you doing what you wanna do.
It's like you walked outside.
You set up there and shot that man.
Or you set there and went out there and had sex with somebody.
This that and the other.
I ain't doing anything.
I ain't doing anything.
And then your parents get on the news or the parents set up there and  say,  that ain't my son.
My son good- Yeah we are goodie two shoes in the- in the eyesight of our parents.
When we in the house.
but once you cross that doorstep it's a different story.
And that's why I don't understand why people get on- Why- why did you do that?
Why you do that my son?
This that and the other.
Did you pay attention with your son and your daughter did  when they was outside?
When they was out there?
And that- and that's-  and- and- and- that- that is reality.
Not everyone.
But- but it- it's- it's there.
It happens.
Then life growing up in DC was a good life for me.
I think it was a good life for everybody at that time when I- I think that- I- when I-  think if- if I ain't mistaken I was  thirteen when I moved to Southeast DC.
But like I say, that was the fun- it was the most  beautiful thing, this that and the other, the homes looking nice, which is the projects.
Which I- I  don't mind saying that because it- it was a good life.
I mean  th- the people around there when I grew up   hey, you know,  not have nowhere, put in a foster home.
Then you come to a-  a n-  a- a place where you got  rooms, you know.
Your brother sleep right there.
Your sister right there.
We  run down the steps, this that and the other.
F- fixing breakfast, this th- It was beautiful.
It was beautiful.
You come outside, you know, the grass is green.
You know what I mean, you got clothes line to hang your clothes, this that and the other.
It's like- I'm like, oh man, this is great.
You know what I mean?
So I mean, you know, and then,  you know, it's- it's-  it- it turned around that-  The good thing about it is- is the recreation centers.
The- I- I thank the recreation centers because it was  more of, um,  something to do.
I- I- I look at it as something to do, you know what I mean?
I went up there and learned to play ping pong and  learned me- learned to shoot pool.
It was- it wa- it wasn't in the streets.
It wasn't- it wasn't drugging.
It w- it wasn't- it- it- it- it gave-  gave me- Let's say gave me- It gave me a peace of mind.
I had something to do.
And it's something that-  You know, you wanna learn to swing that paddle to play ping pong.
You wanna learn to hold the stick.
You know, it's-  it- it- and it got to a point where y- where I- I looked at it whereas that  the older people I looked at    cause like I said moved in when I was a child but  you see people that   having a nice car,  a nice place to live, and you walk in they house, and you see, dag, man this-  look at this, man, that- look at- that's a nice couch.
You know what I mean?
But it- Oh man, they got a color TV?
And then like, oh man, and- and- and- and-  and  as going-  as  going to school and everything is-  Why some people having nice shoes on?
Dressed nice.
You know what I mean, going to school.
Then there was going out.
There's going out to parties, this that and the other, and you see how they- nice they dress, this that and the other.
It's-  it's- it's- you wanna say, well how did they do that?
Well you look at how they do it, a lot of 'em did it  in a lot of ways.
It wasn't- it wasn't employment.
It was doing drugs.
It was selling drugs making money.
Off of each other.
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
And- and that was a hustle.
What we called a hustle.
That- that's the thing is a hustle, you know what I mean?
Although it's illegal,  but that's- that's-  that's what people did.
That- that- that what we do.
That's what we do.
So I'm like this, then you say, I'm like this, well, hey, I gotta graduate out of school.
I want something out of life.
And I think that everybody-  and I-  Even the people that's locked up right now  I- even they know  that  the way to go was the education.
You know what I mean, cause you want a good job.
You don't wanna make five dollars an hour, this that and the other, which is- w- still is going on now.
You ain't making no money.
What- what- what's going on now like this, you have- I'm giving you twelve dollars or fourteen dollars a hour,  w- w- w- well look what the cost of living is to-  to have apartment,  this that and the other, so it's- it's- it's- it ain't no better.
It's- it's not no better.
Because still you causing people go out there because  to meet-  to meet their means.
You know what I mean?
Because  I am like this, you paying me  this money as a kid coming out of  h- h- h- h- h- high school today, Does that now then- and I'm like this, e-  even just to graduate, not to go to college, but I'm like this, you paying him  fifteen dollars an hour, how much apartment cost?
You look at how much apartment cost.
Well today you- I gotta pay fifteen hundred dollars for this apartment.
No no no no no no no no.
Well if you add it up it doesn't add up.
He can't dress hisself.
He can't feed hisself.
And- and- and that's the bottom line.
So I'm like this, so now- now what  carries over into me coming up in  in- in Southeast DC, it's the same thing.
You know, you ain't making no money because at that time when I was coming up I think the- the- the minimum wage if I ain't mistaken  three twenty five?
Now this is the in- s- this is in what, the sixties?
You see what I'm saying?
And I'm like this, well hey, but a job is a job, you know what I mean?
You know, you gotta work and make your means, this that and the other, but  this is-  I- I-  This is  life right now which don't nobody know it.
But  we create  the-  system creates  cause it, you know, cause all if it's the government.
You don't wanna say wherever there's government, this that and the-  All this create is a mind- a- a set mind person  is to go out here h-  I have to find a way to make it.
You gotta survive.
Cause you're- you're not- you're not giving 'em anything.
It's like your health insurance down there, you're not giving them anything.
You're- you're not giving  the man and a woman and a child, this that and the- you not giving them anything.
So now I have to resort  in how I'm'a make it.
And- and- and- and- and- and-  people- or we, uh, being people,  we tryna do our best.
But that ain't cutting it because the money you giving me so now I gotta find another way.
And the reason why the violence out there today is because this what we have to do.
So I work a job,  look clean,  this that and the other,  but under the table,  remember how I just tell you, that when you walk out the door, there's a different story, I'm doing what I'm doing  to make that extra buck so I can look good.
Where, my moms?
Oh I stayed at home-  Oh shoot, until I- I- I met my wife.
Until I- I stay- I stayed with my moms- I- I stayed with my moms  for  the- the duration of my time before I left.
- No.
Mm-mm.
Stayed in Woodland Terrace.
Um,  I think at the age of  twenty eight or  thirty I- I got locked up  for I did selling drugs.
You know what I mean, tryna make it.
Not only that, a user and abuser,  you know what I mean?
I used and abused myself.
I abused others.
And, uh,  when I went to jail, what- what-  what helped me out a lot  that when I went to jail I- I-  it's seeing that, you know what,  hey,  you know, you- you-  your moms  set there and kept telling you and  your dad kept telling you to-  You need to go to school.
What y- what's out there?
And I kept lying to my mom, this that and the other, but like I said I'm out there, I'm on drugs.
I'm using drugs.
Not only that, I'm selling drugs.
You know what I mean?
I- I- I take that twenty dollars and I try to turn it and flip it,  how many times, this that and the other.
But I was at my worst- I was my worst  person  to myself than I could ever know because I'm like this.
And when I got locked up I looked at myself, I said how stupid can you be?
How stupid can you be?
And I did it- I, uh-  I- I did every drug I think there was that I did.
And only thing I never did, I never shot dope.
Smoked weed,  uh,  I had- I had acid before,  uh,  smoked PCP,  uh,  drinki-  drink,  this that and the other, but, uh, that's the only drugs I never did.
I never did no dope.
So when I- when I got locked up I looked at myself, and I said, hey,   w- what you doing here?
I'm looking at myself I'm like this now.
I'm- I'm- I'm- I'm sitting here, I'm looking at these motherfuckers they- they sit there-  Even- even- even- even being incarceration  is just like being out on the streets.
And watch somebody hurt theyself or they sitting there tryna,  hey,  man, you gonna give me this.
You know what I mean?
I mean cause we confined in this little space right here just like we sitting here talking,  be confined, but I'm like this, they s- it's still-  it's like  the streets.
It's still marketing things, you know what I mean?
Hey,  hey I'm jealous.
Hey,  y- you don't want that?
Man give me that man.
And it's like I'm just running over top of you.
It's- it's-  And I sit there, and I looked at myself, I say  what I'm doing here?
I say my mom and dad taught me better than this.
Not only that,  it's not that they taught me that,  being raised  the right way- And I- and I'm like this.
Now I love my parents more than anything in the world because I'm like this.
Although they didn't have-  and then when they got  me and my brothers and my sister, us back together, move in this house,  How- I say move was right.
So I looked at myself, said why I'm sitting in this jail?
I go to school, I graduated high school.
What- what are you doing, RD-NAME-1?
What- what are you doing sitting up here in jail?
And I say, you know what, you're dumb.
And it- it- it- it changed my life,  seeing how  I don't wanna be.
Oh you can-  I gotta go.
Hey,  can I use the bathroom?
I'm like hold up.
Can I go and wash my face?
Can I- can- can I just-  You know I just  went out all night, this that and the other.
You wake up, this that and the other, well I'm going take a bath.
You can't take no bath.
Oh, oh, is- is it alright for me to go in?
No, it's not time now.
So I'm like this- I'm like this.
I'm sitting there,  I'm-  Uh it's like I'm- I'm locked down there.
And now I gotta aks somebody.
I'm like, what the hell is this- this is- is this living?
I watched people get stabbed.
I watched people overdose.
It's just worse than the streets, being over your friend house, this that and the other, because in- in s- s-  in-  coming up in Southeast, um,  I- I- I mean I went and got drugs for people, this that and the other.
Even dope, I went and got  dope for 'em, this that and the other, and watch people OD.
I watched-  what I did was not a life,  what helped me out is- is like I seen where it is t- going nowhere.
So this-  this life  in jail is- I'm like this.
I- I don't- I don't see how they do it because even still when I was locked up,  in- in Lorton, Virginia at that time.
I don't see how a person  can sit up there  and get locked up and see what's going on in life  in the prison,  walk out,  and two days later they right back.
I- I look at-  I- I'm not a-  I-  I'm not gonna s-  I can't say  whether it's drugs.
I- I can't say because I don't know what's i-  installed in some people mind cause you don't.
But something gotta be installed in your mind because  with them it's not your parents.
It's something that's  out here  that makes you  to keep going back and doing what you doing.
It- it got to be  because if  you being battered,  you being hurt,  or something is taken away from you,  you tryna find a way to get away from that.
And- and-  and my thing is that  you- you're not going because you-  you see it but you don't wanna see it.
Or either you see it and- and that ain't your way because maybe you don't have the education.
Maybe you don't have someone there to talk to you, to sit there and say hey, change this.
Why is not something that you see whereas that-  let me try to find a way to aks a question,  this that and that, so I don't understand you.
I don't understand you.
So my life is- on- once after  prison  I set up there and I say, man, I want something out of life.
The good thing about it  when I got locked up,  I stayed to myself.
And I even the seen the people  most of my friends, some- some of my friends, n- not a lot of 'em,  seen my friends- a lot of my friends in- in Lorton, this that and the other, and I watched them, this that and the other,  my thing was to stay away from 'em cause I didn't know nothing about no prison.
I watched- I watched a couple of my friends get stabbed and killed in there,  while I was there  because they got,  you know, they still was  doing the street life.
You know what I mean?
The hustling and doing this that and the other.
Hey,  nice cl-  nice  jeans and shoes, this that and the other, cause they- they-  they- they hustling.
They- they still doing the same thing, drugs and j- I'm like this.
It's al- it's- it's already known in- in- in the system that they got more drugs in jail than they got on the streets.
So th- this is life, so I'm like this, I watch them get killed, this that and the other.
But  I had a good,  um,  What do you call the guards?
This that and the other, and, um,  I just stayed to myself, and the guard walked up to me one day to hear how I got into my plumber's trade, and he-  he walked up to me, he say, man, you know, you appear that you  a little different from everybody else.
There's another, but I'm like this, I'm scared man.
I don't wanna get stabbed.
I ain't no different from nobody.
I just learned to shut my mouth.
I mean, just damn, five years though.
I say, man, let me shut my mouth.
I'm like I don't- hey I don't know you.
Hey.
If you wanna take it,  you take it.
I don't care if my moms starve tonight.
I'm like this.
I'm sitting there looking at myself, and I'm sitting there crying.
All the- all the energy I got, this that and the other, yet my mother can't touch me, this that and the other.
all of this and all of that, this that and the other.
I'm like, man, I'm down in my man, uh  I'm'a kill me in a instant.
So I might  you ain't as bad as you think you are.
You're smart as you are, but you not as bad as you think he is.
I don't care how many muscles you got, this that and the other.
I'm like, this is crap.
So I'm like this, the guy set up there, and, uh,  my-  my parole- uh, the guard that was down there,  one of the correction officer, he set up there and say hey,  uh, I need you to give me a hand.
He gave me a hand.
And  the hand he gave me    just showed me how to change a toilet.
Tell me mop the- mop the fl- mop that water up.
This that and the other, and I'm like, hey man, well, I never really used no tools.
I'm like this man, you know, cause- cause  wh- when I g- once I graduated I went to a-  I worked at a government, uh,  agency.
I worked in the- in the government.
Um,  RD-WORK-9.
A good job.
I st- I st- I still, you know, the  it's- it's-  still I was making good- I probably was making more than anybody else if you really wanna look at it but  I still resulted  into drugs.
And that drug got me caught up one day,  sold it to an undercover agent.
So got me locked up, but  the gentlemen  that helped me- the guard, this that and the other, he showed me how to change a toilet.
I said man this is heaven.
Is this heaven?
This- this is- this is what I like doing, man.
Hey I'm doing something constructive.
You know what I mean?
Dang, you mean to tell me I just took this up, put that down, this- and put it together, this that and the other, he showed me.
So I'm like this, when I got out,    when I- when I got out of-  and I'm like this, I went to the halfway house,  still old dumb me.
Still old dumb me.
And I got out, this that and the other, and, uh,  I was doing it.
I was- I was-  You know I went back-  Not robbing- I've never robbed a store no- I never robbed a s-  stole nothing from nobody but I just had my- my- my little habits, my ways of getting high.
You know what I mean?
So I went back to smoking,  uh, crack,  you know what I mean?
Uh, and I-  and I'm like this when I met my wife,  which is so beautiful man.
It was like,  hey, this is time to change.
I- I was in the halfway house.
I- I was working.
Matter of fact, um,  the guard  that helped me  t-  put myself together to get this trade,  I was working for him, um,  you had to have seventy two hours  in the halfway house  before I can get a-  a visit  to home.
To go home.
And, uh,  you know, you- you get two days out  which is, uh,  Saturday-  Friday and Saturday.
You leave Friday evening.
You gotta be back Sunday.
And, uh,  I went to see a friend of mines,  you know what I mean?
I'm like this, my- I'm like this.
I didn't have no beads no more beads in my head.
I had waves, I'm like this.
I'm looking I'm all built up t-  tight.
And, uh, I j- I got on a bus.
I got on a bus, and I- I say man, I'm just gonna get off.
And I- and I- and I got off the bus and then- and I-  and I started walking  and I turned around, another bus came, and I turned around because I'm still walking to my man house, and I looked, I'm like,  oh my God.
I said, oh man.
I-  I said ho ho ho ho ho.
And I- and I say I got to say something.
Hey, hey, hey, h- hold up.
Hold up.
Hold up.
Hold up.
Uh,  I asked her her name,  and, uh, she told me her name, this that and the other.
She said, nah, well I got somebody.
I said I don't care who you got.
I said, hey!
Pulled out-  pulled out my money,  put my name and- and-  my name and number on- on a- what's her name on a- on a bill I gave her, say, hey give me a call.
And it was, uh, love ever since.
I've been married my wife now  ever since then.
Thirty-  What we got?
We been married- got twenty-  almost twenty six years.
I wanted that- Hey she was beautiful.
And I- I-  decide, can't live without her.
I-  This is my life.
Gave me four beautiful kids.
But I- My thing is  with the-  the-  growing up in Southeast is-  it- it was good.
It- it- really, really.
It- it- it was good.
It's- it's- The thing is, what people- what- what people don't-  don't understand,  it's- it's not where you grew up at.
It- it- it's the principal of-  of what you  was raised and taught.
Take that value and learn to do it-  do what you been taught because, see,  it- it wasn't our parents.
It's not our parents.
See you parents sit-  Our parents set up there and tell us what's right and what's wrong.
They already been through their life  that we- we been through.
But we feel-  or we wanna go around about it.
We wanna go around it, this that and the other.
But yet still we come back instead of saying, yeah mom and dad, you were right, this that and the other, but behind they back, we doing what we wanna do.
And that's why I- I wanna address to the parents today,  stop  sitting there saying  that's not my son, that's not my daughter.
See, cause your- your- your-  your kids need to come clean.
Come clean-  clean with theyself cause they're living much longer.
They come clean but they still have to do the things that they sposta do.
Or stop hurting yourself because  all you did was bring us in the world.
And you told us, and you showed us.
You beat our butt.
You- you whipped our butt.
You set up there, this that and the other.
No you ain't going.
You discipline us.
But never set up there  once them kids walk out that door and set up and say that's not my son, that's not my daughter cause you don't know.
And the- and the problem that we have is being people.
And we- we- we are parents now.
It's not that y-  You ain't saying nothing being a parent.
Your kids not saying nothing because they won't sit down.
They won't sit down and discuss where-  Hey mom, I got a girlfriend and  things ain't right, this that and the other.
I go to work and, uh,  you know, the- my boss up there, you know, he was just cussing me out the-  We don't speak.
We don't say anything.
See, because someone had my answer for you.
Someone can guide you where it is that you wanted to go.
You know, man, this job is messed up.
I'm just gonna go and shoot somebody.
You know what I mean, at the job.
You know what I mean?
No.
But if you learn to talk  someone will hear you.
And someone will give you some good advice  so you won't wind up in jail.
And you can live productive life.
Because it's our- it's- it's our thing because  children, they- and even us being parents, we don't- we don't say what's on our mind.
It's like  right now, you know, y- y- you-  you- Hey, I'm married to you  but you understand I'm dealing with this woman.
Why you ain't sitting there telling your wife that I'm dealing with this-  this woman  and still- and still leading her on, letting everything  so th- th-  is that- that's the problem right there.
You see what I'm saying?
Am I right?
Cause you ain't talking about it.
Instead of saying, hey honey, I don't wanna be bothering with you no more.
I'm- I'm just gonna leave.
You ain't doing that.
You- you- you playing a game.
You still hustling.
You still hustling.
That's- that what you doing.
You still hustling.
And- and- and it's both sides.
Everybody always wanna set up and say whether it's the whether- It's the man.
It's the woman.
No it's both sides!
The women doing the same thing.
So the kids- the kids ain't no different.
They doing the same thing.
They doing the same thing.
Yes, go ahead.
Oh that- that was beautiful.
That- that- that- Well, the- the thing is when- when I was coming up in- in the- in the sixties, the seventies and everything  y- you-  you couldn't.
There's Woodland Terrace.
There Hawthorne.
There's, uh,  Benning Road, there's, uh,  Barry Farms, this that and the other.
You're not allowed- I mean, you went to school with these kids but they live here.
They live there.
It's like- it-  You can't go on that turf.
Do you see what I'm saying?
It's like- it's like- well, th- th- this our worst thing.
And- and- and- mm- exc- excuse the expression-  It's the same thing what you see on TV because really it is  because  if you look at it,  it's-  this where we live at.
You not allowed over- You not even allowed to talk to the girl over here.
The only way we-  only way we have  that thing was  through the recreation departments.
Because we went to play sports.
Everybody come together.
See cause I'm like this.
Now we gonna- we gonna play these guys in baseball.
And- and- and- and still that was a problem then.
If you win,  there's a problem.
If you lose, there's a problem.
Because really, we didn't wanna really want y'all there.
So we ha- there had to be a time whereas that  they have to-  it-  the- the- the-  the- the, uh-  the recreation department had to stand  so you can get on the bus.
So we can get- so we can get back on the bus to leave t- leave from the game.
Yeah, .
Everything.
Everything.
It- it- it- it- it- it- it- it- it got bad.
It- it g- got bad whereas that they'd just say well, look, we- we- we can't do this no more.
So they had to find- they had to find a designated  place for us,  just for the kids that really wanted to do something or like play sports, this that and the other.
They had to find  a- we- w-  Although we gonna play Barry Farm, we can't play Barry Farm here.
And we can't Barry Farm in Woodland where I grew up at.
Okay, well we- we- we'll take it down Anacostia Park.
We'll take it down to the park.
We'll play the- we'll play the game down there.
But we can't not go in this  place  and play.
We can't.
We had to- we had to go somewhere neutral.
And- and- and- and it's still- and- and- and- it's still- it's- Ain't nothing gonna change.
It's- it's not gonna change because it's- it's- it's- it's not-  it's not  where you at.
It's not Georgia.
It's not Washington DC.
It's the people  how they perceive theyself, talking about this is mines.
Ain't nothing yours.
It's for all of us  but you wanna sit there and say, this is mine.
Long time ago.
I'm like this, what it's si- sixty three, where I remember    Martin Luther King got killed.
And  we wasn't even allowed to go up to the store.
You'd better have something in your  name and then meantime th-  Once they got everything from the riot and everything at this time,  National Guard sitting around the stores, this that and the other, cause the windows and everything, this that and the other.
You know what I mean?
You- you-  you had to wait.
Go home-  If you had to buy clothes or h- had to go get groceries, this that and the other,  you had-  you know, we walked,  this that and the other, but  that was then.
And it's the same thing.
Ain't none- ain't none of this is gonna change  because  the system-  I think-  I- I'm'a say- I'm'a put- I would put it more on the system because  if you-  I say the system because it's just like when we came back where we sitting there talking about the funding, the money that you giving to somebody,  this that and the other, and even right now, you-  A high school graduate  comes out don't make no money.
They go to college,  four to eight years in college and come out  and can't get a j- can't get a j- a decent job.
Or not only that,  they'll hire 'em,  but yet still I'm'a pay you this although I got that degree.
Say I'm certified, this that and the other,  but yeah, I would like to have you here but we can't pay you that money.
So you right back at the same thing.
You still struggling.
You still struggling.
So- so I'm like this.
I- I put it on them but  I-  I- I put it on the- on- on the system itself which is the government because I'm like this, y'all marketing, this that and the other.
And the ones who really getting over it is the one- just like this- this- this-  this- this-  c- uh, this Center right here.
You know what I mean?
Th- that- that  I'm like this.
The people who got this building right here  they making it.
They ain't getting the people that work here the money they deserve.
Doing what they doing for  the community, this that and the other,  because they- they have to- they- I'm- I- I understand.
Yeah you h- We have to make money.
See so I don't live nice, drive, this that and the other.
But they ain't getting the people that work here  their propers  in order for them to have so they wanted to go out there.
Or f-  whereas that they c-  set there and provide for they kids  and stop they kids from going out there.
So it- it's- it's- it's a catch twenty two but my thing is with- with me and you, it's for a- still, regardless how hard it is, it's- it's for me and you to make a change for ourself.
Let's set up that little bit of money they give and do right things with it.
Don't think that you can turn anything around.
You can't turn drugs around.
You can't set up there and go out there and sell drugs, thinking you gonna make it, this that and the other, cause of one of two things.
You gonna step on somebody toes.
You gonna wind up in jail, you gonna be dead.
It- it- it-  Oh no, I- I did it.
I- I-  My brother-  I ha- I have a brother just passed away and, um,  and I got so bad on drugs, this that and the other, and, uh,  Almost got him killed.
Almost got him killed c-  for our-  for my stupidness, this that and the other, because  I wanted to get high.
And I- and I- I took- I took- took his stuff, this that and the other, not knowing that he had what he had for someone.
And I took it- I'm like, the man bug that man that's my brother.
Man, ain't worry about it.
And I  set there.
He come looking for it, and next thing I know he come in the house, his  face all  busted up and everything, this that and the other.
And then I didn't know what was going on.
He sitting there say, hey, hey, h- hey hey RD-NAME-1, uh, somebody took my stuff and I'm like, oh my God.
Yeah.
At that time I said- I said, man, I need to kill myself.
Like man, I- I- I'm just setting up there and getting my brother hurt.
And the other day after we buried him  I looked at him, I say, man, Jesus Christ what I did.
He gone now.
I have to say, what do I do to myself?
And- and n- and- and- and this what helps me  right now today.
I- I think I haven't had no drugs what, in almost  twenty, thirty years.
I don't want it no more.
I d- I-  You know, I'm like this.
I don't knock nobody.
If that's what you think, if that's what you believe, this that and the other, you still a human being.
I don't want it.
I seen where it land me at.
It land me in jail.
You know what I mean?
I- I-  I-  I turned a head-  I turned  my mom head  ninety degrees, I turned my father head like that- that's my son.
What the- what are you doing?
And I set up there and say, you know, all the people I hurt.
And I- I don't want it no more.
It's-  it ain't nothing to do it.
Not anymore.
You- you smoke it or you get high or nothing with it the more you still got the same problems.
What you got?
And- and-  you still got the same problem, and d- d- but look at your pocket.
Hey hey, your pocket is- your pocket's fat like that.
Now everybody think you guys finna getting high and doing what you doing now you  things like that, now you right back and going doing the same thing again.
So it's- it's- it just a growing up thing, and I'm like this.
Like I say, what hit me in my head when I got locked up  and-  and I looked at my mom and dad.
I say, you know you didn't raise no dummy.
You taught me right.
Not only that, I- I'm getting older and I see it.
I'm watching my friends die.
I'm watching drive by shootings,  this that and the other, because  you there.
You walked over there, you went over there just to  pay.
Cop a bag.
Somebody just roll up   and you was just dead.
And bullets ain't got no names.
So  but if you w- went- if you didn't go over there  to get it, you wouldn't have been part of it.
You'd been on the basketball court or doing what you doing, at work, this that and the other, but you weren't over there.
So we- we- w-  we chose- we chose our life.
We the ones that chose it.
But see, mom and dad didn't chose it-  didn't choses your life.
They- they set there and brought you in the world and simply tell you what's right or wrong.
But we ch-  We choose the direction that we wanna go.
And that's behind mom and dad back.
That's why I keep telling parents y'all stop getting on the news and sit up there talking about,  hey,  that ain't my son.
Cause you don't know.
And the problem that kids got right now today  is still lack of communication.
Cause it is a perm- It's always someone.
To talk to.
It is always someone.
The only problem we have, we don't wanna take it in.
We wanna always- we wanna be the one sit up there and prove you wrong.
There's a better way.
There's a better way.
No, it's not no better way.
It's not no better way than s- sitting up- getting up in the morning,  taking care of yourself, washing your clothes  making sure you take care of each and every day.
Stop being ashamed of what you are.
And that's the problem we got.
Hey, ac-  Hey, act like you can't go to school, this that and the other.
Cause like we went to school.
I mean I had holes in my tennis- this that and the other- but I'm like this, hey I went.
I don't care if you like me, you don't like me.
It don't make no difference, I got- Hey, mom and dad, I got you this education.
That's my thing.
But a lot of kids right now today cause it's- it's getting worser because the market now on clothes,  this that and the other, how nice they look, this that and the other.
Boy I'm like, the- a- a pair of tennis shoes when we was coming up, a motherfucking a pair of tennis shoes was five dollars.
Mother fucking, uh, Converse was- wasn't no more than what, seven dollars?
Two- three hundred dollars for a pair of tennis shoes.
Come on, dog.
I'll tell my son right now today, who you- who you talking to?
And I- I set up there and say  you look just as good.
I- I put them two shoes now- I- I could find the same shoes-  same shoes look- look direct look just like them shoes,  ain't the three thousand,  but these ain't nothing but fifty nine dollars.
Or eighty dollars.
Man I never pa-  paid eighty dollars for a pair of goddamn tennis shoes a day in my life but I'm sitting up and tell you hey, look.
These look just as good,  and I bet you I could dress you  with three hundred dollars I could dress you for half- half- six months into school before you- I had to buy you some more wardrobe.
He don't understand.
Oh, dad, man, this that and the other.
Well you need to get a job, son.
You need to finish school.
You need to do what you have to do.
And get a job  and make your money.
I'm not against you.
But, uh, that ain't me.
I'm not- I'm not- I'm- I'm not caught up with  what's going on out there.
And that's what kids are.
What kids are.
And- and- and- and- and- and my thing is, my wife sit up there and t- ask me the other day,  she say,  the reason why the kids is where you are because  you brought them everything.
Well my thing is, what I t- tell my wife, I say  what I did,  don't get me wrong,  I said, but what I did,  I set up there,  I became a plumber.
I made good money.
My thing- If I can give them  the shoes and things they want, buy 'em,  this that and the other,  they ain't gotta go out here and hustle.
Cause I did it.
That's what I did.
See I got caught up- I got caught up in that.
I got caught up in where is that,  I didn't have this.
I got- I got caught up in my shame.
I got caught up in, you know, hey man, moms looking at me.
I can't get the girls, this that and the other.
Ain't nobody-  you know, I got caught up.
That- that was- that was the worlds was working and- and making money cause I wanna look  and- and this, that- and be popular.
So I said when- when I had my kids I say,  you know what man, pssh.
Watch my butt, this that and the other, make- put money away, this that and the other.
Hey,  And he- want that coat right there?
That's my son.
You want that coat?
We getting that coat.
It-  it was to keep them  not from going out there  think they had to hustle.
Dressing 'em nice, this that and the other.
You ain't gotta go out there and do th- that, son.
I- I already been through that.
This what I'm doing this for you for.
My daughter, just got finished- finished college.
Hey,  pssh,  money,  hey.
You're not going there- we ain't gotta hustle to get you through it-  school.
No, that d- hey, tha- this Daddy job.
It's not my wife job.
This- this mine.
Cause y'all my kids.
You see what I'm saying?
I don't want anything no more.
It's y'all.
This is y'all life.
And that's why I did it.
But see,  and- and it turns around whereas that  your kids does what they wanna do.
Regardless.
You get 'em- you get 'em- Mama, you could get 'em fifty million dollars.
It wouldn't make no difference.
They still going out there, do what they wanna do.
They gonna do what they wanna do.
It's not that they're not satisfied.
They just- Got minds of their owns.
So I learn.
I- I- I- I learned it the hard way.
It took me a long time to learn it.
I st- I mean I s- I'm still struggling.
I'm still struggling with understanding them.
Understanding life, society itself,  but we- it's still a struggle but it's not- it's not  whereas that now  I don't have to worry about it no more.
It's not enough for-  to- to kill me.
Or me just say I'm just gonna commit suicide.
I don't understand.
No no no no.
I'm just gonna watch y'all-  sit and watch y'all and do what y'all doing, this that and the other.
Y'all gonna do that anyway!
So why I'm'a worry myself?
I'm'a sit back with a straw.
I'm like this.
I'm a old country boy.
I'm'a sit back with a straw in my what's his name, sitting back my- my  pipe tobacco, this that and the other.
My little drink, this that and t-  Dad, there you go again.
Th- th- there- there she go again,  this that and the other.
Oh she pregnant again, this that and the oth- I'm just gonna sit back and watch because  hey-  Our  kids today- the kids today-  our children cause everybody's o- you know, we're- we're part of the Lord.
This ours now.
This is what we have to do  because we killing ourself worrying when  they- they don't- they don't- they don't care-  I ain't gonna say they don't care.
But they not- they not searching.
They not reaching out for answers.
You know what I mean?
And I was telling my daughter the other day, she- she- she- she got this job, this that and the other, and she said well oh my- my- my- my- um,  the people that worked for her say where they at as long as I did my fifty hours, this that and the other, and, uh,  I'm-  I can go and do what I wanna do.
I said, no, hold up.
Why- why you only gonna just do  to get your pay fifty hours.
I say, what-  why don't you research yourself and  do a little bit more?
Put yourself- put yourself way ahead of the game.
You see what I'm saying?
You ain't gotta sitting and say well I did this I did that.
Put yourself way ahead of the game.
So when it come back to say you need this done, this that and the other, you can al- you already on top.
Ins- instead of getting you the two days that you wanted to take a leave,  mother, you probably take a mother fucking week and you sit up and say hey,  uh, yeah, the paperwork on my desk.
It's done.
You- you somewhere else.
You sitting there, you enjoying yourself.
Mi- mi- mines is done.
It's already- oh- go- uh, did y- di- uh, open up, uh, which name?
It's already typed in.
Did y- did y- did you get it?
Did you get it?
Tell you what, go to so and so and so and so and so and so- and click that thing there.
Oh yeah.
Hey, hey, h-  hey honey I got it.
You done.
You be .
And that's the smart part about it.
And in my trade I alrea- I always learned that.
The- the, uh, the guy sit up and say why- why- why you ain't here at- at three o'clock in the morning?
What-  RD-NAME-2 you wanted to be here to, uh,  six.
H- O-   Well, hey RD-NAME-1,  this need to be done.
We need to get that done, this that and the other, uh uh uh oh oh.
Hey look, I'll tell you what, um,  it's already done.
Can I- can I take the rest of the day?
What RD-NAME-1?
Oh it's done.
Toilet already installed.
Pipes- pipes already in.
Well you, uh- Huh?
RD-NAME-1 you can't do that- you can't do this.
I- I got it done.
So when your boss sit up and say something to you  you can sit up and say hey,  RD-NAME-2 got it done.
Or I got it done,  you know, the-  this is my crew.
RD-NAME-1 is on my crew.
We got it done.
It's done.
I- I- I did it.
I did it.
I got smarter.
I- I- I- I- I beat myself.
I beat my- I beat the game.
And was honest.
Well only thing wasn't honest was you saying that you wasn't sposta be here.
And this man gotta pay you.
They gotta pay you.
They ain't gotta pay me nothing.
I- I did this for me.
And I- I- I w- I'm working at RD-WORK-3.
You know, and I'm like this.
I went in there, I did what I had to do.
Not only that, I had a test on the system.
I'm- I'm testing  three floors.
I got water on the system.
I had water on the system from yesterday to .
You know how much pressure on them pipes?
And I'm like this.
I went in there to make sure.
I walked in there-  walked in there, the mother fucking- so much w- water pressure on the mother fucking pipes the mother fucking  burst.
I h- I had to release the plug.
I had to release the plug.
Man sitting up there telling me-  the security come in talking about what you doing here?
I'm like this.
Who you talking to, dog, this is- Hey, this is my thing.
I come and put this in here to make sure this building be operating when I leave.
So I'm like this, I release the plug, this that and the other.
And th- and my boys jumped on me and set up there and tell me and say hey, why- why was-  w- what you do here RD-NAME-1?
Ho, ho, ho.
I set up there, I was laying down in my bed, and I said, man, you know what?
I got so much pressure on that line.
I said, man, jump up.
I s- I jumped up and- and it's a good thing I did.
Cause I woulda flooded- I woulda flooded half that hospital.
I went in, I released the plug, this that and the other.
I told 'em say, hey that's enough.
But RD-NAME-1 you can't do that, this that and the other.
I'm like,  where'd I went wrong at?
Now I'm questioning myself.
Not only that,  now I'm gonna get fired because I wasn't sposta be at the job, this that and the other, because, you know, they got,  you know, security, this that and the other, I want- I'm like, I- I- I'm doing my job.
It-  The way all this works out not keep saying- saying everybody is wrong, this that and the other, and then- and then a lot    that we do, and then growing up in Southeast I'm like this, I learned  to me  was right and wrong, and I learned to get a handle on myself.
And it- and it- and it gon- gonna carry me.
My- my- my growing- my- my parents-  when I seen what my  parents went through because I'm like this, dad we had-  I got- on my-  all us, my seven brothers, we all right behind each other.
One was born one year, I was born next year, another one born the next year, this that and the other.
I said - Step step step, every year.
You know what I mean, and my- my sisters-  Well, my older sister was right behind  the rest of- but the-  the two youngest ones,  we were so close and so close knit  because I'm like this the thing is with my parents done, they had us in- where they couldn't afford us.
Like I tell you about poverty, this that and the other, ain't got the money, this that and the other, and no means to set up there, it ain't got no room  really  cause we was  being placed  with my aunts,  this that and the other.
Everybody's tryna help until they got to the point where they wasn't no more help, so we got into foster home.
But what I learned from my parents, then  is to keep it together.
Let- let's- let's keep this together.
I'm like this regardless, this that and the other.
And although my dad was, um,  a gas station attendant, my mom,  you know, finally got a job working in uh, a Government Treasury Department,  they still was there for us  and  our thing was to listen.
It ain't like they didn't want us.
And it- and it- and it comes out that if we- if we paid attention  I think that we all woulda beens  more successful than what we are.
Cause I done killed- I done killed five of my years being in Lorton.
And- and- and- and I looked at- and I look at what I make today,  how much I make a hour now,  you know the- well you know how much money I had?
And- and- and- and- and- and it come from  my thinking, not their's.
I didn't pay attention to them.
And that's what's wrong with today,  don't nobody pay attention.
Don't nobody pay attention, don't nobody wanna hear what you gotta say.
Everybody wanna make it, but it ain't- ain't nobody paying attention what nobody saying.
And that's our problem.
Cause we won't take five minutes to sit.
It's like you go to school.
The teachers sit up there tryna tell you  how to get your head, but you like this  hey girlfriend,  what's going on?
Hey buddy, this that and the- play that music- bap bap bap.
Ain't no-  ain't-  The good stuff is-  is- is- is- is- is going on.
You don't hear that but you can hear that- that-  that bebop,  this that and the other, this that and the other.
And the same thing growing up in- in- in- when we was  coming up in Southeast DC, it's the same thing.
You don't- you ain't wanna listen.
Only thing you- your thing was living in Southeast, you just wanna  be a part of it.
That's what it is, being a part of it.
Hey.
He got them pair of shoes,  I'm'a try to find and get them shoes, so therefore as a result I gotta find a way.
If I had to rob and steal you,  if I have to sell drugs, this what I'm'a do.
Oh L-  Oh well, see, no no.
See, down in Southeast partying was a good party Southeast.
Now let me tell you.
Well, when we was coming up, what- what g- what y'all call-  well they uh-  Yeah, go gos.
Let's put it like that.
But  when we was coming up, see in- in my time- when I was coming up early  I- Like this.
You have to learn to dance.
So you had to learn to dance, you had to learn to bop.
Slow jazz, this that and the other.
You had to learn that thing, and then you have to get your what's that- It's- it's-  it's a- it's a- it's a s-  it's where you could learn  to  dance  with a woman and hold her tight  and spin her  in the rhythm that you had to do it cause it- it's-  Man,  it-  don't nobody know the feeling.
No- I'm like this  because I'm like this cause I- I-  my- m- my baby brother,  which is  cause I used to go- I used to be a wallflower.
I used to be a wallflower  I ever tell you, I used to be a wallflower and I'm like this, cause I'm like this you wanna go out with your friends, because I-  My thing I was always into sports.
Me and most of my friends, yeah this all we do, man.
It's- it's constant.
When you go to work, come home, this that and the other.
We'll come home, man, look,  dressed,  we going the basketball court.
We going throw the  baseball, this that and the other.
I-  Sports my thing.
That's why I tell 'em more about ping pong.
I'm like this, I- I was a sp-  I love sports.
I'm a sports fanatic.
I wanna be the best.
I'm'a tell you.
I'm'a be the best catcher ever, be the best everything.
Best ping pong player in there, that's what I think, shoot pool, this that and the other.
But I- when I started going out my- my baby brother which is younger than me.
See RD-NAME-2, and, uh,  hey, we go to parties, that and the other, and I'm like this, dang.
I see a nice girl.
I wanna dance, and I'm like,  man, I don't even know how to do that, this that and the other.
Shorty what you doing?
Man, shorty, shorty.
Come on man.
Look .
I'm like man, I ain't wanna ask her out.
I'm scared to- I ain't getting up there getting embarrassed, this that and the other.
You know, I know how to jump around, this that and the other.
I came home  and I told my dad.
I tell- I didn't tell him it was my baby brother  but I told him my dad, and  with not knowing  that my dad  taught my baby brother  So I'm like this cause now I say growing up with my parents and everything cause in my- in my home, this that and the other, it was  tremendous.
I mean,  you know, we didn't have too much of anything but  even after they finish they'll- they sit and play the music,  drink,  this that and the other.
And I always watch my- my father be sitting there dancing with my moms.
I told dad and he sit there and say, hey mom, mom,  this that and the other.
Hey, my dad grabbed me and  turned me around a couple times and I'm like this,  and my mom would say dad- no dad, no no no no no no no no no and my mom grab me, this that and the other.
And I'm like, oh dog, I say this is heaven.
Well I stepped out and I'm like this,  I was working, this that and the other.
And I'm like, well I'm'a get me some clothes.
Man, I-  That's the most beau-  This- that's why I-  The thing is now, and don't nobody know it, even young kids, that I- I- I prefer the young kids to go to a oldies but goodies party  and watch  these people just to have fun.
It's- it's- it's- it's- it's- it's- it's just how you doing, it's just  constant fun.
It's fun.
You meet people.
It's not no  tryna  meet somebody.
It's not this that and the other.
It's just funny.
It- it's just dancing.
Yeah and I'm like, the pleasure, and- and whether you know it or not that's exercise.
Don't nobody even know that this is exercise.
But it- but it- it's- it's our culture.
It's- it's- it's a part of your culture whether you know it or not.
It's not drugs.
It's not no drugs there.
It's not nothing there.
And people just sitting in there drinking,  you know, and having a nice time,  smoking their cigarettes, this that and the other.
And- and- and trying to get it on.
Hey, you know, swing you go bop.
Get baby though- Hand to Jesus  Beautiful.
And don't nobody know  And don't nobody know how beautiful it is.
And that ?
Yeah, it's dancing- Aw, slow music, uh-huh.
Slowly- slow jam.
Slow jam.
Play another slow jam.
And it- and that was the thing.
I mean we had- we ha- you know, you had your hip hop, this that and the other.
But a lot of times in- in- in DC the go go- It's like- it's like this.
It- When it- when it came, in- t- go go parties, this that and the other,  you c- you- you had to party there.
You had to party in your neighborhood.
You can't go to somebody else because I'm like this.
You go there, this that and the other.
Hey, somebody,  hey,  get jealous  cause you dancing with the girl.
You wind up getting stabbed, shot, this that and the other, or it'd be a fight.
This that and-  You couldn't go out your neighborhood.
Yeah it's like block parties.
It's- it's- right here.
This- this is it.
This- this is where we this that and the other.
And- and- th- they was good parties.
You d- you- Very seldom you really hear somebody,  you know, fighting  in- in your neighborhood at the parties.
It never was.
It never was that.
It's always was a outsider.
Somebody came, this that and the other, or- or this that and the other.
It- it even-  it- it- it wasn't even whereas that  you dance with    this girl right here,  and although you know this- this might mean-  this might just  RD-NAME-1 shorty, this that and the other, this that,  it wasn't the point that you danced with that girl.
It wasn't the point.
Or I bump you.
Oh man, what you being funny?
I bump you, this that and the other.
No, it wasn't like that.
Th- this neighborhood, you know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
Regardless, we'll behave.
Well,  which we was close, Woodland and Hartford Street was close.
We knew each other, this that and the other, but  all that was just still in that- that little center.
But like I say  Barry Farms and-  and- and Stanton Road was much different, see?
You- you couldn't do that.
You couldn't go.
Yeah.
Yeah you didn't go there.
But a- a- as- as it went on, it- it kind of  panned out a little bit.
It kind of panned out because what you did you-  you find up- when I- when playing sports, this that and the other, you got to know 'em, people got to know you because you went into this .
You can go down there and party with 'em, this that and the other, but it still was that- that chaos whereas that you don't belongs down here.
You know, this is our turf.
Well, what give you a right to say this your turf?
This ain't your turf.
This is- this is- this is United States motherfucker.
This- this is- this is- What is this?
This Stanton Road, this Stanton Road.
Who- who tell you that I can't walk down here?
W- where you get that from?
You're wrong.
Ain't no way this is where we can't be at.
You see what I'm saying?
And- and- and- and-  I mean it went on- it went on and- but  the thing is as- as it progressed it got better.
It got better.
You can go, this that and the other, but  I think as-  the way you carry yourself  it- it- it get better because the way you carry yourself because you know what you-  People  have a tendency to grow on theyself to get wiser.
So as  things went on, we- we can go there.
We can go down Stanton Road, we can go to Barry Farm, this that and the other, because  a lot of time, people  they-  you know, they met you because it- it came back to where we can  play ball down there again.
We can go down there and play ball.
Repping Woodland, this that- and we go play ball, this that and the other, respect they got, you know, you wa- you wanna lose?
This that and the other.
It came  to be a-  a u- a unity thing.
So it was no thing.
But you still had knuckleheads  or people, individuals, don't understand that, hey,  hey, they still tryna keep it  this way  and it- time is changing.
You still- you always gonna have- you still have that right now today.
Yeah.
What- what s- No, what stopped me-   What stopped me from going to DC,  it- before my moms passed aways,    I just-  Now I make good money.
I bought my wife a-  a brand new Expedition.
Tell her, I'm like this.
You know, cause I'm like this.
I gotta see Mama.
No, hey, grandkids is in here, we out- we going say hey,  I'm off, this that and the other.
We going see Mom.
We gonna do- find something to do today.
Bought my wife a brand new car, and  you know what I mean, and  brand new truck, Expedition,  now I say, let's go and see Mama.
We went, stopped and got food, called Mama.
Hey, how you doing honey?
This that and the other, oh, I'm on my way, this that and the other.
Oh RD-NAME-1, you know, this that and the other, hey.
Alright Mama, I get- I get that.
I- I get what what you mean, okay.
Alright, RD-NAME-2, honey,  Mama say get this, this that and the other.
Okay, we'll stop and get it.
Take the kiddos.
So we goes over there and I'm sitting in the house,  and I say, well RD-NAME-2, I'm'a go out back.
Cause I- I don't smoke.
I smoke, but I don't smoke in the house.
And not only that, I don't smoke around my kids.
That said, I'm'a go outside.
I didn't go-  Got myself uh-  grabbed me a beer, went out back,  sit down,  I don't know what it was, something say turn.
And I turned,  and I'm like this,  along her car somebody look like somebody just went down the side of that motherfucker.
I said, hold up.
She- I- We didn't have the truck no more than like three days.
I'm like this a brand new truck!
I'm like Jesus Christ.
And I told my- I said, Mama,  I love you.
I love you more than anything.
I said I'll be back to see you.
I got in the car and I told RD-NAME-2 I say, you not bringing your truck over here, I mean my- my w- w- my wife was hot.
First time she ever had a brand new vehicle, you know what I mean?
She tickled to death, hey uh- Hey look I- I got nothing.
And I'm like,  I say hey.
I tell you what we do.
We go see Mama, see that eighty eight?
and we got that- that big  Eighty eight?
We'll drive that over there.
And we'll- we'll- went over there on that.
But I- After that, when my moms passed away I just say no.
Because it's too much right now.
And it's still happening.
You still looking at the news.
And, um, we just heard some- somebody got killed over there the other day, this that and the other.
I don't know nobody over there no more.
I- I think it's about one, maybe two families still over there since I been gone.
That been thirty something y-  Oh yeah, that's thirty something years.
And I- I even- I mean, I refuse to go over there now because it's- it's nobody I know.
But over there, it just is worse.
I'm talking about worse worse.
An- an- an- an- anytime- anytime you- you  live here, next person live next door to you,  and y'all shooting each other?
And y'all fighting?
Oh no no no no no no.
It just worse.
I-  I refuse.
I refuse.
I refuse.
I might gotta go through there.
Hopefully that  o-  my- one of the jobs ain't over there.
But I refuse to.
It's not- it's not the same.
It's- it's not- it's not the same.
It ain't gonna be the same.
And my thing is, I hate to set up and say, and I know people came  up the way I came up with poverty,  p-  uh,  babies having babies.
They got more kids than anything in the world.
But  that-  that is  the problem.
If you wanna look at society right now today  the problem is  babies having babies.
I hate to say it.
You got a- You got a s-  fourteen year old boy,  a thirteen year old,  worse thing- you could have a baby.
They can't finish school.
And then- and then the parents  that had them  can't be no more than what, two-  two,  uh,  two- three years older than they are,  and still babies having babies, but none of 'em got no education.
None of 'em ain't got nothing.
So  when you sit up there and watch your child  watch your parents sit up there    smoking weed,  doing dope, this that and the other,  they ain't sitting there talking about nothing.
They ain't- they ain't sitting there talking about now-  hey- they know, uh,  Lucinda over there, you know, they- that girl just had another baby, this that and the other- What are you talking about?
That ain't- that- that ain't the conversation.
That ain't nothing.
That gossip.
And that's why the kids right now today,  nothing here.
They don't- they don't  push the issue  about education.
They don't say nothing.
Cause they wake up in the morning, doing the same thing they do each and every day.
Drinking,  talking about so and so.
It's like soap operas.
You look at TV, I Love Lucy, this that and the other.
That's all you do all day.
So what do- what you got to talk about?
You ain't got nothing to talk about.
You ain't- you ain't- you ain't going to school, you ain't in the working world.
You ain't got nothing.
So what you gotta talk about?
Only thing you wanna do is talk about the neighbor.
Hey don't you know John down there selling drugs?
Is that really important?
How is that gonna make me some money?
Talking about John.
Talking about him selling drugs.
John-  Yeah, it ain't gonna do nothing for you.
So the- this- this what the problem is today, right now in the world today.
It- it's that babies having babies.
It ain't the point that your baby having babies, the baby- the thing is, you- you don't have no education- you ain't got nothing up here.
You can't g- you- you can't give 'em nothing!
So guess what?
I'm'a go out there, I'm like this.
Now you mad now.
Your child,  ev- even you,  going out there robbing and stealing just to get a nice pair of pants,  clothes, this that and the other, going to the store just stealing,  this that and the other, this that and the other.
Kids doing the same thing.
That- that- that's- that's how I'm'a make it.
That's how I'm'a make it.
It's not jealousy.
It's- it's just what they had to do cause they had to make it.
And- and- and don't nobody see it.
And- and that's the- that's our- that's our biggest problem.
Go- go to the pros and see.
Go- go- go to the hospital and ask 'em how- how many- how many kids  right now from  fifteen to twenty,  how many babies in the-  that these kids done have?
From that age.
And they'll tell you.
And you wanna look at at that- look at that- look at the-  the- the education rap sheet.
It's not- And- and that's the same reason why  that lady and that man get on the TV  Now on TV talking about, it wasn't my son.
You know it was your daggone son.
You knew it was your son because of the way you was raised.
The way you raised him.
Because even still, if- if your kid come to ask you well why- why- why is there  four plus four  equal eight?
You can't tell 'em.
Four plus four equals six.
But you ain't got no education.
You didn't- you didn't give 'em nothing.
You didn't give 'em nothing to go on.
Even when you caught them.
Even when the police brought the kid- brought the kid back, and sit up and say, yeah, I caught your son there stealing.
They give him a break.
Sit up and say hey,  he ain't got  he went and stole, this that and the other.
Give him a break, bring the kid back,  oh son, you know, this that and the other.
Oh, this that and the other, ch- that- that- fake out.
You just whoop your mother and son, this that and the other, in front of the mans just sitting there talking about hollering at 'em this that and the other.
I don't even know what your son gonna do cause you doing the same thing.
It's nothing.
We- we set up there and hurt ourselves.
It's a lot done changed.
It- it- it's a lot.
Things are much better but we the ones have to make it better.
It's not worrying about the government.
It's not worrying about the system, how it is.
I don't care who the president is.
W- what- what difference who the president is?
That's not you.
It's for us.
If I'm making ten dollars right now today, I wanna- I wanna- that ma- that manager making fifteen,  I wanna find out how that manager making fifteen.
I'm'a talk to him.
I'm'a bust my butt.
I'm like this, hey dog, how you g-  where you get where you at, you know what I mean?
Man I'm talking about,   yeah dog, you know, th- I'm'a do it- I'm'a do it a little better than you cause I wanna know how to get there.
You see what I'm saying?
So I can live comfortable.
Because- Cause- cause each and every day I walk there and I tell myself, and I gotta tell my kids, p- the police can't touch me with a ten foot pole.
Can't touch me  Only thing he aks me for is my ID.
If I'm driving my car, the only thing he aks for is my ID.
Maybe my brake light out, this that and the other.
That's the only reason why.
That's the only thing the police can say to me.
Police can't touch me.
It's not because it's Virginia.
I know it's a commonwealth, they- they- they nasty police th- but you can't touch me.
The only thing you gonna do to me  is set up there and try to p-  party if ain't nobody around, you gonna put me in a car  cause then like, you want your way, and I don't bow down to you, you probably take me over there and kill me, this that and the other.
Cause it's a commonwealth state.
This is Virginia.
Y'all made y'all own rules.
I already know what the system is here.
But I'm like this, outside that, you can't touch me.
I can go to DC, this that and the other, you can't touch me.
I-  I haven't did anything wrong.
Look at my record.
You want- you- what you wanna talk about what- what I did-  uh, twenty, thirty years ago?
That was then.
It's not now.
And that's why I tell my kids, if you do the right things, you ain't got no reason to be shaking your leg, this that and the other, scared, this that-  if you ain't do nothing wrong, what you- what you got to hide?
You ain't got none of that- Boy you better walk this-  you better sleep good,  feel good, eat good, this that and the other- And hey.
Hey and- and- and grow to get old.
That- that what you do.
That what you doing.
I'm- I'm- I'm f- fifty nine now.
And I tell my kids, man,  think I ain't tryna live to see another fifty nine?
Life is beautiful.
I mean you hate to hear what you hear.
You hate to hear about the killings.
You hate to hear about, hey,  somebody got ran over.
You hate- you hate it,  but  that is n- that is not  us  to be worried about.
You got m- other things.
And that's- wake up in the morning,  ask the man for your blessing.
and you living good, eating good.
Going- go to the movies, go enjoy ourself,  take the families on trips, this that-  that- that what you living for now.
Everything else is in the past.