Four three, seventy-two.
Washington DC.
I wanna say  anywhere Uptown.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Um, yeah.
I've lived in Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Let's see,  I wanna say maybe like three years.
Uh, I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3  High School in DC.
Now  I am    an entrepreneur.
I do fitness for  children,  and adults too, but mostly for children.
I think both of them were born in Washington DC, mm-hm.
Yes.
My mom is deceased.
And my dad, he works for a state senator in Florida.
Yes.
Mm.
Let's see, when I was young,  I lived with my grandparents up until  maybe five years old.
Maybe up to about five years old.
And then went to live with my dad in Maryland for a while.
Then,  went to live in Harrisburg with my mom for three years.
And then we came back to DC.
So,  mostly Uptown.
Everywhere Uptown, DC.
Um, growing up here was fun,  you know.
It was safer,  because  we didn't have all this stuff going on, you know.
And then,  I like the,  what is it?
Take a village to raise a child, so everybody knew everybody's kid so.
You know, if you got in trouble by the time you got home,  somebody know.
You know, your parent,  yeah, uh-huh, found out you did such and such, but.
It was pretty much safe.
Um, we could stay outside until the street lights came on and,  you know, didn't have to worry about anything.
But my-  my years, growing up in DC was fun.
Probably yeah.
I don't- No.
I don't remember nothing about the riots.
No.
Yeah, we stay outside.
We- Okay this was like  maybe- especially like in the summer time so,  our day would consist of, you get up in the morning, you eat your breakfast about nine,  ten o'clock you outside,  until about twelve, with your grandparents til you come back in and eat lunch.
Then you go right back outside  and you stay out there til about- I guess it g- got dark about eight,  whenever the street lights came on.
I mean, and we could be all over the neighborhood,  you know,  um,  playing,  jump rope, double-dutch whatever going to the rec.
Um,  it was just fun.
You know once in a while,  you know, you get that treat to McDonald's.
Cause, you know, we always had home cooked meals.
So you going to McDonald's, oh we going to McDonald's?
Okay.
Uh,  yeah it was just- it was just fun.
Ah.
Yeah.
I had- um,  shoot, most of 'em was my cousins.
Cause we kind of all- almost all lived in the same building.
We lived on, uh, RD-ADDRESS-3-  was it-  no, RD-ADDRESS-6.
So,  we had the neighborhood kids around there, then we had friends in the building.
Uh,  it was just- it was just fun.
Um,  yeah, some of my friends was mostly friends from school, from elementary school.
When, you know, we used to be outside.
Um,  The boys used to like to tease us  and everything.
We'd play, you know,  jump rope, or we doing cheers.
And it so funny cause the boys knew all the cheers.
So they would do the cheers with us, yeah.
So funny.
Um,  it was just fun, you know.
It wasn't-  it-   it was just fun times.
Mm.
Well when I was- um, I wanna say like maybe the early eighties,  by that time,  my mom was living in Southeast so,  I lived with her  out there for,  most of my whole  middle school  term.
So that- I guess that's like three years.
And that's when you started seeing  a lot of changes, as far as like, you know, the drugs and stuff like that.
Um,    I wanna say as far as like the killings, when I moved back with my grandparents,  in the late eighties, that's when all the- I wanna say like around eighty  seven, eighty-eight that's when  a lot of murders started taking place.
Um, cause I guess the drug game started getting real heavy and stuff.
And  started losing  friends around that time, male friends anyway  around ti- around that time.
So,   I'm'a say it was dangerous, but it's not  as da- it wasn't as dangerous as it is now.
It's like  the kids,  they're just like, out of control.
When we were coming up, we were taught to respect our elders, regardless.
Even in high school,  you never-  Like, if I go to these high schools now, cause I do my fitness,    and  it's the way that the kids just talk to the- the faculty.
Like,  you know, they curse at 'em within their conversations, like they're cursing using curse words, but that's  like a casual conversation.
And I'm just looking at the teachers like, you really let them talk to y'all like  that?
And,  I mean, it's just like  crazy.
And I just look back on my time when I was in high school,  we ain't never do that.
We were focused.
I mean, we would come to school, we'd wanna dress up.
You know, we had,  our mind on what we gonna do,  you know, when we get ready get out of high school.
Um,  I mean, we had fun,  and it-  we didn't have to use curse words, we didn't have- you know, disrespect our-  our- our teachers, our adults like that.
Even getting on the bus,  you know, back then,  you know, we'd be loud and stuff, but we would never be  disrespectful.
I'm scared to even catch  the- the metro,  the bus,  or whatever.
And I have a ten year old and I'm like, I'll be taking you to school all the way up into high school  because it's- it's dangerous.
I'm just like, oh my god you got females getting raped on the train.
I'm like, where they do that?
How does this stuff  occurring?
Like,  it's just crazy.
And a lot of 'em are these young  black males doing this.
Um,  even some of the young girls are like, out of control.
You know, I'm just like-  You know, my friends and I often talk about trying to, you know,  do like, you know, some kind of mentoring  program or s- you know, something like that to try to reach these kids cause it is just-  it's awful.
It's awful and scary and I'm scared for my child.
Mm-hm.
It was a big difference.
I so love Uptown.
I don't know, Uptowns is like-  I mean, I wanna say both  sides had their, you know, similar issues, but Uptowns is more  calmer.
I don't wanna say uppity cause they would say Uptowns like uppity, or whatever.
But, um,  Southeast is just a little rough.
And in the area I lived in, I lived-  I- I lived on, uh,  where was that?
RD-ADDRESS-5.
So I was in between-  We were  not  too far from where like, all the  drug stuff happens.
I wanna say maybe a block away,  you go up the hill, you make that left turn,  bam, you right in it.
Um,  yeah I've seen a lot of stuff living over to Southeast .
Just a lot of-  Yeah,  it was way different,  way different.
Um,  yeah, I- Uptowns is l- a lot more calmer.
Well- yeah we were older, but  we did.
We'd stay out in our front-  like in the front yard,  um, in the building where we lived in.
Um,  and that was it, no further.
But like, when I lived Uptown, we can go all over.
And we didn't have to worry about anything.
You know, I'll tell, grandma we going such and such place.
Alright,  you know.
And it was just a bunch of us, you know.
But-  And it wasn't that we're not  real far, but  like I said, everybody knew, everybody's, you know, child or whatever.
Um,  but yeah, Southeast it just w-   I was just glad those three years was up.
Yeah.
Uh-huh I came back here, move with my grandparents.
Um,  at- by that time they had moved on, uh,  RD-ADDRESS-5.
And  that's when, um, I moved back with them,  got enrolled to,  uh, RD-SCHOOL-3.
And I had  good time at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Good years, good years.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
My high school experience I wanna say was the bomb.
But when I go in these schools,  and it's like- and I guess, I don't know because of my height or whatever I still look young, cause I'm over forty.
And it's like, the kids just look at you like,  you know.
I'm just like, okay.
It's just like no respect at all from s- from most of 'em.
I mean, all you hear walking down the hall is,  you know, F this, you know,  you know, just a lot of cursing.
And I'm just like- and I'm like, even the principal letting them get away with this?
I'm like, I don't understand.
It- it has to be    like,  I don't know, more discipline or something, or something because  it-  these schools are off the chain.
And, you know, I mean, the DC public schools, the charter schools, I've been  you know, to a lot of 'em, and I'm like,  y'all just talk like- I mean, y'all just  actually let them walking down the hall just talk like this.
Not say anything.
They talk like that with each other, they talk like that with the staff.
And I'm like,  when I was in high school,  w- uh,  our teachers didn't tolerate that stuff.
I mean.
Um, probably some of the friends I had.
I was mostly quiet    in school,  laid back.
Um,  but I did try to get myself involved in, you know, certain things, you know, to  make it fun for myself, make it interesting.
And I had good friends and  still good friends with a lot of 'em  now.
Um,  yeah, and it's like even,  like when I got into the school, I had some friends I would call my cousins, you know, they would look out for me.
You have any problems though, you know, come to me, or whatever.
Um,  it was-  everybody was kind of, you know, friendly to each other.
You know, you had your  kids that had their beef with each other whatever but  it wasn't  nothing where I feared  coming to school.
Like I would walk to school every day.
I would walk from RD-ADDRESS-5 all the way down  to, which was that, RD-ADDRESS-3  every morning.
Um,  walk home every evening, you know, afternoon.
Um,  my- my whole high school experience was-  was really awesome.
It was awesome.
Um, teachers were bomb.
Most of 'em were in my home room.
Um,  and then, you know, we had to switch classes so, you know,  lot of us were in the same classes within,  you know.
That's mostly how I met  my f- good friends.
I had a f-  maybe wa- I wanna say about  maybe two- no,  maybe about four good friends    while in high school.
Um,  the funny thing is-  Cause I used to teach preschool,  I taught preschool for twenty years up until two thousand thirteen.
And a lot of the children that I taught  were from  classmates.
And they're like, oh,  we went to school together, da da da da da.
You know, then we started becoming close, you know, after that.
Um,  th- that- that's just-  yeah,  that was funny cause I'm like, wow I taught almost all my classmates' kids.
Oh man.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, so  my son,  I actually, um,    adopted him when he was two.
So I actually got him when he was  two months old.
His- um,  his birth mother's cousin and I worked together.
And  so the birth m- um,    the  cousin,  she asked me,  you know, would I wanna get him, because she didn't have any more space in her house.
Cause he also has a older brother from the birth mother, she had the older brother.
And I was like, sure.
You know, it's sposta been temporary.
So I was like, yeah sure,  I'll get him.
And, um, so we worked everything out, and, you know, had to take the foster care classes and all this stuff.
And I would go visit him cause at the time he was at St.
Anne's Infant Home.
So I would go visit him and-  So he was born December two thousand five, I got him that February.
Um,  And that was all she wrote.
When he was like six months old, I decided to  put in a petition  to adopt him  because, um,    of the mother's and father's, you know,  background, mental,  you know, background or whatever.
And, you know, I just want him to have a stable,  you know, home.
And, um,  so we did that, you know, going back and forth to court for two years, and finally  adopted him June nineteenth, two thousand eight.
and that was the best day of my life.
So,  Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh my god.
Ooh, let's see, the craziest things?
I feel like everything I do is crazy.
Oh man,  taking him to- he-  cause he's involved in a lot of sports.
So,  he became involved in sports when he was five years old.
So from then on that was just non-stop.
Football,  basketball,  baseball, wrestling,  what else he did?
Uh,  something else he did, I don't know.
He did a-  a lot of sports.
Um, now he's a author.
He became a author,  um,  October two thousand fifteen.
So his book is doing well.
And his movie just came out today,  He did a short movie for his book,  just came out today on YouTube.
RD-WORK-7 His second book  is coming out in July.
Yeah, so.
It was like,  I had to kind of put myself on the back burner    with my, you know, business, trying to build my business, and I just been promoting him, promoting him.
Um,  but in the process of that, he was like, mom you should, you know,  do a book.
Cause I had a book that I did when I was  working- uh, finishing up my bachelor's degree.
And I was like, well, okay, I said, let me send it to the publisher see how she like it, whatever.
So my book came out  in April.
Mm-hm, it's a little children's book.
Yeah, so,  yeah.
His book is about    a superhero, superheroes.
Uh, it's called RD-WORK-7.
So if you look at the book, you think, okay it's just a fireman.
But it's not what you think.
So, him and his best friend in the book,    um,  discover they had super powers  when they were like nine or ten or something like that.
So they decide to use their superpowers  for good.
So they have, uh,  two arch enemies    which are,  what is it, the- uh, the Destroyer,  and Bang.
So, in the book,  that's what they're doing, defeating their- um,    their arch enemies.
It's really cute, and he wrote it actually when he was eight years old.
And  I remember the day he wrote it,  he was like, here Ma, I wrote a book.
I said, okay,  put it to the side.
That was the worst thing I ever did, but.
My girlfriend, she wrote a book,  and she was like, my book is out, you know,  da da da.
I was like, okay.
I said, well, you know what, I said, RD-NAME-2 wrote a book.
I said, but you know what, I never read it.
She said, what?
Whatchu mean you ain't read it?
I said, well let me get it right now, so.
I picked it up and I started reading, I said, well, dang.
I said,  this book is good.
So I  emailed her the book.
And she said, girl you need to send this to my publisher.
She gave me the publisher information,  I emailed it to the publisher, the publisher got back with me just like that.
She said, now how old is this boy?
Cause at the time he was nine then.
Uh,  you sure he's nine years old  for him to write this book?
I was like, yeah.
She said, you need to get his IQ checked, she was like, cause this is really good.
She said, I wanna publish this book.
So I was like, okay.
So I had to find a illustrator, whatever.
So we got his  art teacher at his school  to do the illustrations.
Um,  and then, you know, the book came out in October, that was all she wrote.
And he just been going-   Um,  mm-hm, the club actually bought like-  I think they bought like, five books.
Mm-hm, I think one is, um, sitting out there.
Um,  so,  the funny part was  January, before his book came out,  um,  was it January two thousand fifteen,  he met, uh,  President Obama here.
That was like the highlight  of his life.
And I didn't know  that he was gonna meet him.
You know, they didn't tell the kids tell the parents, it was, you know, a surprise.
So when I came to pick 'em up,    one of the police officers was like, are you RD-NAME-2's mom?
And I was like, yeah.
He was like,  oh my god, your son got to meet the President.
I was like,  the President who?
He's like, the President of the United States.
I said, are you serious?
He was like,  I sat over there  and I listened to their whole conversation.
He said, your son  is very gifted  and your son is very intelligent.
He said, he even had  President Obama in awe like,  wow, wait a minute, how old is this kid?
I was like, really?
He said, their conversations is just like-  He was like, yeah you got a special one right there.
I was like, oh okay.
So that been like, the highlight  of his life.
Um, so even on the- um,    when we did the books, on the back of the book it has a picture of him with Pres- mm-hm,   with President Obama, mm-hm, so.
Yeah, and then, um,  we sent- uh,  he sent some gifts to President Obama.
I think we had a, uh-  It-  the kids went back to the White House for an event  and  he took one of his books,  um, and somebody, uh,  I think a representative said they'll make sure he get it or whatever.
And he- he end up getting a personal letter from President Obama,  thanking him for the gifts and remember his time with him at the Boys and Girls Club and everything.
And he was like, Ma,  look,  he didn't sign  sincerely.
He said,  your friend,  President Barack Obama.
I said, okay.
He said, so you know what that mean.
That's like my best friend, w- he said, your friend.
I said, okay, he said, so you know when he get out of office I'm'a have to go find out where he live at.
I said, I know.
Right, right.
Right.
So- and it was so funny cause right after he got that letter-  So h- he got the letter like, on the weekend, that Saturday.
Then Monday,  I'm sitting in here, I get a phone call,    from the White House.
So,  I'm like, okay.
They were like, yes, um,    we wanna invite you and RD-NAME-2 to the White House, uh,  you know, uh, for a special event or whatever.
Um,    you know,  President Obama appreciate the gifts and stuff that, you know, you gave and everything.
I was like- I was like, oh, okay.
So,  I think during- I think it was Christmas, right before Christmas,  a week before Christmas.
So we got to get, um,    the special tour of the White House with the, you know, Christmas decorations and everything.
So, it was like, unfortunately President Obama wasn't there.
But  it was still nice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he's very into politics and stuff like that.
More than I am, like,  but yeah.
No, for real, cause that- Mm-hm.
Exactly.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh my god.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah he's very intelligent, he's been on the honor roll,  uh, this year, cause he set a goal for hisself this year.
Before school started, he said Ma,  my goal  is to make honor roll  this year  for almost the whole school year.
I said, okay,    So he didn't- he almost made it the, um, first semester,  first report card session.
But the last two, Yeah.
Like, his second- his third report card is like, almost  all A's.
I'm like, oh my god, you better work, RD-NAME-2.
I said, see?
Cause you know how boys are sometimes, you know, they get in their,  I don't wanna do that .
I said, you see why Mommy push you?
He was like, yeah.
I said, but this is a goal that you set for yourself.
I said, and you-  you know, you completed that goal.
So he was so proud of himself.
F- yeah, he'll be in fifth grade next year.
It'll be his last year of elementary.
Girl I'm not.
He's my only son, my only child, yeah.
I never had any- And, you know, he's going through the puberty thing now.
So, you know, we-  I'm like, oh I can't, I don't know.
Yes.
Yes.
Just this morning.
I'm just like,   But he's- he's a very sweet child.
He's very sweet, he's very caring.
That's one thing I love about him.
And  just like me, cause I always teach him to give back, so he always love,  you know, giving back.
So even with his book, um, sales,  he gives- um,  he's gonna give, uh, some of his proceeds to  St.
Anne's Infant Home.
Mm-hm.
We had a- um,  he had to do something for his school, we had, uh, lemonade day.
So, they had to pick, um,    somewhere they wanna donate their money to, you know, some of or all of it.
So we made like,  about forty-five dollars, so he donated  all the forty-five dollars to  The Boys and Girls Club.
Mm-hm.
And that's what I told him.
I said, did you every no- yeah, I said, you ever notice every time you give, I said, you- you get  something even more spectacular  back?
I said, but you're not doing it for that reason, you just, you know, giving because you want to, but, did you ever no- He was like, you know what, Ma?
He was like, you right.
He said, I never really did notice that, he said, but,  he said, you know, I like giving.
I was like, that's so good.
He's so funny.
Yeah,  a lot of my family here.
Mm-hm.
Now, before  all the- the fun relatives passed like my aunts and my- my mom, my un-  We used to have like,  big cookout  like every year, you know, get  the family together during Christmas and  stuff like that.
So,  it's really been hard,    so.
Usually everybody try to depend on me and I'm like, I can't do everything cause I'm tired.
You know, do everything.
But like with my siblings now, um, since my mom passed, it's been about seven years,   I'll try to do,  um,  like either something for Christmas or  for Thanksgiving.
So either me or one of my other sis- uh, one of my other sisters.
So, and  we had, uh, was it Christmas at my house?
We had Christmas at my house, I was not expecting them to stay all day.
I said we gonna have Christmas breakfast.
They ain't leave my house until like, one o'clock in the morning.
I said, wait a minute didn't I say we just gonna have breakfast?
I end up  making breakfast, making dinner.
But we had such a good time.
I loved it, we had a good time.
RD-NAME-2 was just like,  we need to do this a lot, Ma.
He said, I love having my aunts and uncles and cousins over.
I was like, yeah it was fun.
It's- uh,  I'm the eldest of seven.
Actually,  it's just he- it's him,  uh,  my nephew, well, now I have two nephews.
Um,  so my two nephews and my niece.
My niece wasn't-   she wasn't able to make it cause she was still with her dad.
But yeah, it was-  it was fine.
It was fun.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, my business is called RD-WORK-9  and  I started it in  two thousand thirteen.
Um,  two thousand eleven  I started on my mission to lose weight.
Um,  I was having some issues.
Uh,  so let me back track a little bit.
I couldn't-  before I got RD-NAME-2  I found out I couldn't have children.
<ts  So I had to, uh, end up getting a hysterectomy cause I had, uh, reoccurrences with fibroids and stuff like that.
So, um,  two thousand eleven-  no, two thousand seven I had my hysterectomy.
So,  after that I still had like all this weight on me or whatever,  and just having problems like,  you know, losing weight.
Um,  went to a doctor, found out I had a fatty liver.
Put me on a diet, uh,  told me, you know, things I c-  shouldn't eat or whatever.
So I started with that, I started going to a weight loss clinic, um,  called Decalo  and  you know, started on my journey.
Then I was trying to find the right, uh,  exercise for me, uh, as far as, you know, working out.
Cause a lot of things I was doing just wasn't working.
So two of my girlfriends,    uh, started up this,  uh,  exercise called go go fitness.
So I started going to the classes on Saturdays, cause at the time it was just on Saturdays and  I was just going like every Saturday, I just found myself just going, just going.
And then eventually,  um, I made up a routine  and eventually they made me a part of    their, um,  fitness group.
So that's how I started out with fitness.
So then I end up going to get my Zumba, um,  license.
And  I started teaching, uh,  go go fitness class down here.
I taught, uh,  h-  here for  almost three years.
Yeah, about three years.
Um, it was just adults at the time, then I started doing it for the kids, too.
Um,  so my business  the reason I started my business, because I was on the mission to lose weight,  my mom,  she had diabetes.
Um,  she didn't pass exactly of the diabetes, but,  you know, that's part of, you know, her illness.
And  before she died, a year before she died, she was like, baby    I want you to get yourself together,  she said, cause I don't want you to be like me.
She said, you know, I know it's  thing is going on with me that I don't know,  but the issue is- she said, but  I just want you  to be healthy and be around,  you know, for  your son.
I was like, okay.
And I never forgot about that.
So,  I was like, you know what,  I said, I'm gon- I'm gonna start my business.
It-  the funny part is my business became  final on my birthday  in two thousand thirteen.
I was like, yes, I got everything in the mail.
Like, I was like, oh my god I can't believe this.
But my business is because my mom.
So- and,  I wanted to help,  um,  families learn how to  eat healthy together, work out together.
Um,  and let them know that  you know, fitness is not, uh,  nothing to be scared of or strenuous.
You know,  just have fun with it, we just dancing.
Dancing,  you know,  stre- you know,  gives you-  makes you stress free, and,  you know, just have fun with your family.
It's things that you could do.
So that's my whole  vision for- um, and mission for  my business is to  reach a lot of families, um,  show 'em that you can do this together as a family.
But my main focus  is really on children because it's so many-  so many obese kids, and I mean  like from  three and up.
Cause I've had some in my class  when I used to teach.
So I would start doing the dance with 'em and they g- and they love it.
So now I go to daycares,  um, you know, I do clubs and the YMCA's or whatever, I go to different places, they'll call me  to come, I do summer camps.
And I have two daycares that I do.
Oh my god, I love those kids.
I love 'em, I have one I do on Wednesday and one on Friday.
And when I come in there, they just can't wait for me.
I can't even get through the door good.
They like, we gonna dance, we gonna dance.
And  they just have fun.
But they don't know that they're being healthy, you know, at the same time.
And I love it.
Um,  I- I love it, I just love to see the smiles on the kids face and,  you know, I'm not a drill sergeant,  you know what I'm saying.
You know,  I say follow this routine, but kids gonna do what they wanna do anyway, so I follow their lead.
And that's what a lot of  adults don't understand sometimes, when you  working with children,  it's not all about what you  trying to do.
Sometimes you gotta follow those kids' lead in order to reach them.
And then y'all come together with a happy medium.
So.
I do, uh, all types of music, everything.
Go go, R&B, whatever  is popular, you know, I try to find out what the kids  like.
And I'm like, oh okay.
So  I was like, RD-NAME-2 you gotta teach me how to do this dance cause I don't know.
So I could, you know.
And most of the time I just had the kids teach me, but, you know,  I try to do everything  to their liking because they're not gonna do it.
Yeah.
And even with adults,    it depend on, um,  you know, the type of group  I have, so,  I have  music for everybody.
I did a all, uh,  gospel, um,    event one time,  all my music was just gospel music.
And it was fun, that was something different, that was a challenge for me.
And it turned out real nice.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh man, well, you know,  Chuck Brown he's the godfather of go go.
Um,  so it all started with him.
But, you know, that's what I grew up on,  you know, the go go music.
And  I don't know, I think it's just like  the-  the-  the sound of it, the beat of it.
And it's just like when-  when you're together  with other people and  it's just- You know, depending on what the song, cause most of go go's like, call and response and stuff like that, so it's just like-  I don't know and it's just the- the- the music just put you like in a little groove,  you know, everybody chill, laid back or whatever.
I don't know, j-  go go is- I don't- it's just DC's music.
It's always been DC's music.
Forev-   My favorite band,  I think I have two.
My two favorite bands right now is Subtle Thoughts,  um,    ooh lord, what is the daggone name of the other group?
Um,  It was right on tip of my tongue.
Let it Flow.
I wanna say I had one more.
Of course the Chuck Brown Band.
So those about my  three favorites right now.
They play the same music but their sound is different, you know what I'm saying.
So it's like,  every go go,  uh, band have-  You know, they might do like the same similar songs but its- it's- it's the sound so it comes-  Meaning the sound is, they develop their own like, go go sound, and then the singers  really make it come to life.
So,  each singer will sing the song  differently.
So that's what make  the sound different,  so.
The older stuff- the older stuff was more- uh,  more faster I think,  I think the beat was more faster, but you could still dance to it.
Like I don't know if you ever heard of, what is it?
Uh, Chuck Brown's Bustin Loose?
Cause I think, uh, that might've been the first go go song he did.
So, that sound was like a little fast or whatever.
But now,  the sound as we- you know, the years started going,  the sound- the beat started getting, um,    I wanna say more  not slower, but it slowed down a little bit.
But then,  when Backyard Band came in, they had like this bounce beat.
So you had like this-  this,  you know, ongoing bounce beat or whatever going on.
I didn't care too  much  for a bounce beat.
But that was just, you know, the youngins.
Um,  and then it's-  it's kind of going back  to,  you know, the slower beat,  but then you still got the- uh,  the fast, the percuss- So it's like kind of mixed now.
So,  cause you still had the old school bands out there like Sugar Bear,  uh,  what's the other one?
Um,  it's so many of 'em.
I can't, it's so- it's so many go go bands I can't even-  Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I think I saw that, uh, on YouTube.
But I used to go see him.
When I used to come and teach class,  uh, on Wednesdays, I would leave here  on Wednesdays and go right down to the meeting place- I mean, not the meeting place, um,    what was it called?
Martin's on, uh, Ninth and U.
And would go see him  every Wednesday.
I was in high school,  and the first go- I think it was at Wilmer's Park.
And I wanna say that's only either way out in Maryland or Virginia, I don't know.
And it was, uh,  Junk Yard Band,  I think  Rare Essence,  and another band, I can't remember what other band it was.
But my um- my aunt took me, my sister, and my cousin,  dropped us off, we had a good time.
That was like our first go- And it was outside, that was  my first go go, so I had to be  around sixteen.
Yup, I was around sixteen.
That was the first go go I went to.
You just- Just dancing.
Cause once the music start,  you just automatically start dancing.
And that's basically what-  That's basically what it is.
I mean, and you would dan- it- it's v- it's really good exercise.
I mean, that's all you doing is just-  you just dancing.
Like Soul Train.
Yeah,  you just dancing.
And  it's something about the- the congos, I think the-  the beat for the congos,  it's like really get your adrenaline flowing, it's like-  I don't know.
I don't know.
So,  okay so for example,  Chuck Brown, he'll say- um,  every time he come on,  wind me up, Chuck,  wind me up, Chuck.
Um, and then he- he used to do a lot of songs where it's like call and response.
So he'll say something, if I say such and such then you say such and such.
So it's like stuff like that.
Um,  what's another?
Junk Yard Band they had Sardines and Pork and Beans.
Uh,  Sugar Bear had something.
I can't remember what song it was.
He had a- he had a lot of call and response songs.
Um,    yeah that's  basically it, um.
Oh when they shout out-  the shout outs?
So they might say, uptown, uptown.
Uh,  what's the other one?
Uh,  what- oh, how would it go?
So if they singing a song,  we like, Northwest in the house, hear me now.
Or Southeast, so they'll go through all the-  And then  they also do like the, uh,    what we used to call it?
The, um, display, where they put the people on display.
so like, Sugar Bear, he g- if he see me and my girlfriend, he be like,  RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2 cause we used to come see him all the time.
So, you know, if you get your name called you like, oh he call my name, I'm on display.
You be press to get on display.
So, um,  yeah that's the fun part too about the go go.
Cause you trying to get your name on display, you trying to get your-  your hood  on display, or whatever little gang whatever you was in   on display, but yup.
So that was like the main- Yeah, yeah you were here, or, you know, yeah, he know me, he know me, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Yup, yup.
Yeah, yeah, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Someti- they'll say Uptown but then they'll start saying like the separate neighborhoods in Uptown.
Just like, all parts of the, um, DC area,  so yeah.
So like, they  might say Northeast, they might say Trinidad,  Southeast, they might say, uh,    Mississippi Avenue or something like that.
Yeah, stuff like that, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It depends on where you going to.
See, I go to  the grown and sexy go gos.
I don't do all the crazy little Backyard and  all that stuff cause you tend to have a lot of youngins, you know,  for that  bounce beat stuff, I can't do that.
Um,  but I have noticed that Backyard is  calm- trying to calm down a little bit off the bounce beat.
Cause they did the uh, Hello remix.
I really like that.
But yeah, I go to  like I said, the grown and sexy ones, honey.
I can't do-   Like, Subtle Thoughts, um,  what's the other one I said?
Um, Let it Flow.
So, you know, and they do like a lot of, um, grown and sexy R and B,  you know, stuff, and  yeah I just stick with those types.
Mm-hm.
They do, uh-huh, they do all- they do all of that.
Mm-hm, they infuse all the jazz,  R and B, um,  they might even do some of the little, uh,  Caucasian music that be on the radios, yeah, they- yeah.
And a- oh my god, yes.
They will hook it up.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm, exactly.
Exactly, and just chilling.
Yeah,  another band  I do like is- um,  and I think they do a little bit of both, they do a little bit of everything, it's called Black Alley.
And Black Alley is managed by, um, a friend of mine    that I was in this program with named RD-NAME-2.
And  I started going to see  them, uh, I wanna say about four years ago  down at U Street  at Indulge.
And when I first saw the- and the- and the female singer, she is the bomb.
I'm a singer myself.
But she is the bomb.
The whole band is just like the bomb, but she just-  I don't know it-  it's just her.
Their band-  and they've been doing a lot- they've been doing really great.
Like, they've got to play with some famous- um,    some famous celebrities and stuff like that  like  on the big stage and everything.
They're doing really good, I- I like Black Alley.
Yeah I don't know what is going with- I don't know what's going on with U Street now.
It's like I guess because the change of dynamics    I wanna say gentrification going on.
Yeah, so.
Um, I don't remember too much about U Street when I was younger cause I don't think-  Only thing I remember about U Street is when my grandfather used to take us down to Ben's Chili Bowl.
Cause he liked to go down there and get his half smokes or whatever.
That's probably the only thing I remember about U Street.
Um,  but as I got older,  you know, started going down there to, you know, little functions and stuff like that.
Um,  but I say over the past  two years since a lot of-  you know, they've been doing a lot of construction and  a lot of,  you know,  changes been happening,    um,  it's been a little different.
But it seems like- I don't know, it's like,  you know, both races are trying to get along together, so it's like  you kind of can party in the same  vicinity sometimes.
So I could see-  you know, I could see that now,  but  I don't know.
It's just- it's-  it's still a little  different.
That's a good question.
I don't know if they still- are they still Indulge, did they change their name?
I think they're right across the s-  Yeah.
I'm'a have to ride past there today and find out.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Mm, yeah.
Okay.
Oh god.
It's like every- I was tell- s- Every time I turn around it's like they building up condos  everywhere.
And it's so much construction in DC, it's driving me crazy.
It's like every time I turn around,   I gotta do a detour here or I got- I- I can't take it no more.
And now,  I live over off of RD-ADDRESS-3  by the other Boys and Girls Club, I live a half block up.
Mm-hm, I live a half a block up.
And when I say I miss living Uptown so bad   it's just like,  over there it's just like so much going on, like I don't even let my son go outside over there.
That's why we up here all the time.
It's just so  different.
Like,  it's just too many things going on over there.
It's- it's- it's  dangerous.
Like, too many things and I'm just like,  ooh.
Cause I bought a condo over there.
I just go in my little condo,  shut my door.
But it's just  like,  if I wanted my child to go outside and play, I would not let him  out  over there.
We'll go up here, go to the  parks or the playgrounds up this way,  cause it's safer  to me.
But,  it just  too many things going on over on that side of town.
I don't know.
I don't know.
And the crazy part is  a lot of, um,  my friends or  people I went to school with  that lived up here,  they live on that side,  because the cost of living Uptown is so,  so  expensive.
Even with these new condos they building up,  you gonna have to have at least three jobs  just to pay the-  pay the rent.
My mortgage is less than what the-  what the rent is up here.
I was like, shoot I can't move back up here cause I ain't gonna be able to afford that.
Two thousand dollars, almost two thousand dollars for a one bedroom.
For- f-  yeah,  for an efficiency it's like fifteen hundred do-  I was like, are you serious?
That's crazy.
So,  I feel like that's justification right there cause you pushing all the African Americans  out on to this side or into Maryland or whatever,  where it's cheaper for them to live,  but then you got all this stuff  going on  on this  side of town, not just Northeast but Southeast.
You know, it's just-  it's crazy.
It is- it is- it's just too much going on.
They not making it affordable  for  African Americans up here.
But even so on the Benning Road side I see a lot of them.
It's a lot of 'em.
Even in the worst pla-  Twenty-first Street, and, you know, Twenty-first Street used to be off the chain.
And I see a lot of them  over there.
I said, wait a minute,  my girlfriend used to live on Tenth and G,  uh, Northeast.
She said she was last person- before she bought her house,  she was the last  black person in the building.
And she lived over there since she was young, since she was little.
Her mom passed and everything,  and she was still there.
She said she was the last African American  in her building.
And them people- When I say my girlfriend lived there for a long time,  everybody in the building was African American.
And they lived there for a long time, they got pushed out.
So you don't see nothing around there but the Caucasians.
No.
I see a lot of vanilla.
No longer Chocolate City.
And not- No.
I don't think so.
I think it just-  to me,  I think it make it racist.
I do.
I do.
Yup.
And they- and I- and I think they    make it unaffordable  on purpose,    for the people to live, especially Uptown.
For African Americans.
They have a- you know, they have to have a certain amount where they-  that has to be affordable, uh,  rent.
Um,  a- you know, a small portion.
Yeah, something like that, yeah.
But  even if somebody that has a good job,  you know what I'm saying.
And they might wanna purchase one of these,  you know, luxury con-  They can't afford it.
You know, it's ridiculous.
I'm like, wait a minute.
Cause even the one that, um-  What's that new- uh,  I think those little apartments right there on Minnesota.
Right before you get- Yeah.
Cause I looked into the, uh,  rent for those, I was like, goodness gracious.
How they expect for people to live?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm like, you could buy a house and pay less than that.
That is so true.
RD-NAME-2 was talking about that, uh, on Friday.
I was like, that is so true.
Yeah, minimum wage ain't even that.
Yeah.
It's really diff- Because I remember when I first started when- my very first apartment,  I was nineteen.
As a matter of fact, my very first apartment was over on Fiftieth and J, Northeast.
I paid four hundred dollars for rent for my one bedroom.
And I had a nice size apartment.
My second apartment    I think my cousin and I had together,  over in Maryland by PG Plaza.
Our rent still was- We had a two bedroom,  and that was like, five sixty.
Then when I moved from there,  my other apartment I paid,  I had a one bedroom, four fifty.
And before when I  moved out that apartment  and I moved on, uh, Georgia and Dahlia,  before I bought my condo, I lived over  Georgia and Dahlia for maybe like, four or five ye-  I was only paying  like five,  five hundred.
So I'm like,  what is the reason for these  rents being so  high?
Can't nobody afford that.
I remember back in the day, you could get a three bedroom for like eight hundred dollars.
I'm like, it's almost like two thousand dollars.
And then you wonder why you got so many homeless people.
N- everybody should be able to live in a home,  no one should be homeless.
That's how I feel.
No one should be homeless  in the United States of America, period.
And with DC, all this money you generating from all these ticket sales, I mean, ticket, um,  that you giving people and whatever else you getting money,  you got millions of dollars.
You can build  at least three or four places  for people to be able to  live affordably.
And not charge no fifteen hundred,  two thousand, three thou-  Uh-uh.
Cause it should be no reason that these families  should be living in shelters, living in hotels.
You know, it's- it's crazy, and that's- I had to tell my son that  please be grateful  about what you have cause it's kids out here who don't have  any  thing.
When I say anything, they living on the street, not even in a building.
On the street.
Don't have no food, don't have none of the luxuries that you have.
So please be grateful and thankful.
I said, because me, I'm not gonna see  us on the street.
I said I will have to do what I have to do by any means necessary  to make sure we have a roof over our head  and foods in- food in our belly and clothes on your back.
So please be grateful.
It's- it's sad.
Um, I'm not gonna say necessarily that  my income is stable.
Cause I'm still, you know, working on building my business.
But I still have-  Because my mom taught me how to be a good hustler,   you know what I'm saying, she taught me how to survive.
I'm'a make sure that we stable, you know what I'm saying, so.
You know, I be struggling,  I said, but I- I- what I do, I just keep my faith in God,  I pray every day,  you know, Lord,  please, you know, bless my finances so I'll be able to do X, Y, Z for my son or whatever.
I- I just keep the faith.
That's all I can do.
I don't complain,  I ain't cussing nobody out.
I just stay humble  with everything, because I know  something gonna happen.
And I'm very good with, you know, trying to- you know, with marketing myself, um, but like I said had to put my business a little bit on the back burner cause I was promoting him, So I'm trying to find a healthy balance   with-  between the two.
But, you know, as a mother, you gon- you gonna Yeah,  you know what I'm saying, that's what we do.
But one thing I love about him, because he promotes me and I be promoting him.
It is so funny, I'm like, oh my gosh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
For me, with my business, I would say that  I have arrived when  I have  X amount of contracts under my belt.
And also that I have reached,  um,  families and- and- and- and children  with their weight loss goals, or their- you know, their healthy  goals.
That's,  you know.
I'm just one of those people,  yes I wanna make money, but the mission,  you know what I'm saying, is- is more important.
Because, you know, I still have a mission for myself, I'm still working on myself, you know what I'm saying.
So,  I always tell 'em, I'm like, I'm not where I wanna be, but we have a goal.
You know what I'm saying, we do this together,  you know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Exactly.
Right.
Yeah.
I do too, I do too.
Okay.
Yes.
I don't like mumbo sauce.
I- I don't know, I just never been-  I mean, I tasted it before, it's okay, but I'm just like  not a big mumbo sauce  eater  on my chicken and stuff.
But a lot of people like it, I don't know what the  craze is about it, but.
Yeah, that's a big thing.
W-  the mumbo sauce?
I don't know, I thought it was something that the Chinese people made up.
The Asian people made up.
But,  I don't know, apparently  that's supposed to be a black thing I guess.
I don't know.
I'll have to do some research.
Yeah.
Right.
It's something that-  I don't even know what it's m- what the ingredients are of the mumbo sauce, to tell you the truth.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Right, and it's just l- yeah, so I don't know.
But I never- yeah, I wasn't a big mumbo sauce.