I was born in DC at Georgetown University Hospital.
Mm-hm.
In DC the neighborhood I call home is Deanwood.
I've n-  I've lived here the majority of my life.
I've lived in Richmond, Virginia.
I lived there  five, six years.
That's it.
Mm-hm.
Um, I grew up in Deanwood, in DC.
Um,  after I came back to DC-  um, the DC area, I lived in  Riverdale,  Bladensburg, Brentwood,  and now Cheverly.
High school or college?
High school I attended St.
Patrick's Academy  in Northwest DC.
College I attended Virginia Commonwealth University.
Mm.
My occupation is executive  assistant  at Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington.
My father was born in Rich  Square  North Carolina.
Yes.
It's- it's about as big as this room.
It is very North  and very East  um, in the state.
so it's about  an  hour from Emporia, Virginia.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
My mother was born in Taylors, South Carolina.
My father  um,  who's now retired,  was  a-  a janitorial supervisor.
Um,  two major companies.
One he worked for um,  Architect of the Capitol.
So he was the s-  janitorial supervisor for the senate office- all the senate office buildings.
And he retired  as the  um, janitorial supervisor and grounds  keeper supervisor at Gallaudet University.
My mother uh, retired also, worked for department of the Army as  an insurance benefits examiner.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
I'm an only child.
Almost a year?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
We lived in a single family house.
My parents s- well my father still in the house, yeah.
Mm-hm.
I was in Deanwood last night at his house.
Mm-hm.
So- Well when I was growing up in the sixties and seventies, Deanwood  w-  was more like  the suburb of DC.
A suburb more so than inner city.
Um, actually where I grew up right on the border across from  Maryland.
So,  less than half a block away  was Eastern Avenue,  and then across Eastern Avenue was  PG County.
Um,  so it was quiet.
Uh, my street didn't even have s-  sidewalks on it  until after I moved away to college.
So it was- it was very quiet s- uh,  our block was nothing but single family homes.
Um,  our house was the last house  in that block- on that street to be built.
Um, so it was the newer one it was built-  we moved in it when I was four.
So and we still own the house still,  our fam-  the family house.
And um,  I just remember it just being really really quiet,  there were not a lot of children.
Um,   maybe  in our block there was only  two other houses that had  kids my age or around my age.
And I was the youngest.
Um,    the kids next door, no.
They were  um, a little older, and um,  not considered a good influence for me.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I was very studious.
I was just talking with  RD-NAME-2  today,  um, cause sh-  we were talking about movies and TVs, when I was growing up I was not allowed to watch TV  on  weekdays or school days I could only watch TV on the weekends.
I was not allowed to be on the phone past eight o'clock at night.
So it was mostly  reading, listening to music.
Black and white?
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I do.
I remember.
Um, and I remember the time when we had both black and white and color TVs cause, yeah.
Um,  it was- like I said I wasn't allowed to watch TV during the week, only on the weekends or if I could sneak in  like  sit next to my father while he was doing something I would watch TV.
But the TV shows that I remember  um, are- I was just talking about this today- are like, Bewitched, um,  I Dream of Jeannie,   Brady Bunch which came later, Gilligan's Island,  um, that kind of thing.
The only thing that I was allowed to watch on my own  was Roots when Roots came out because my father felt that was something educational and I needed to know about.
Um,  but other than that it was no TV for me.
I started-  I started off in the neighborhood, it was- um, the school was uh, RD-school-2 Elementary School,  which was in the neighborhood.
I was there up until sixth grade and then I transferred to RD-SCHOOL-5,  um,  which is down on New York and New Jersey Avenue.
And then from there I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
Right.
No.
Mm-hm.
Um, it was not my choice it was their, we're not Catholic.
Um,  my parents wanted  a better life and a better education for me  than they had.
And at the time, the m-  we called it junior high school, they called it middle school, junior high school  it was- Si-  Right.
And  at-  during that time the- the junior high school in our neighborhood was  notor- it was-  had a really bad reputation.
So um,  they j-  took me out of there and put me in the Catholic school for a better education and a better opportunity.
Mm-hm.
They graduated from high school.
Um, I was the first person in my family  on both sides to go to college  in my family.
My mother was here from high school, um,  my mother's parents died when she was eleven  in South Carolina so  her older sister who was twenty years older than her brought her to DC, and raised her.
Um,  my father  came here  right after high school.
Um, he had older brothers  who had  moved here, and so they brought him up here.
And then my mother's older sister  knew my father's family, and then they got in-  and they got introduced that way.
Um,  I did.
Um,  I had an aunt.
Well my parents are still here.
I had an aunt, the- the one that r- raised my mother.
She died about six years- six, seven years ago.
Uh, my father's siblings all  moved back to North Carolina.
Except for him.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Um,  not so much.
I mean we do get together, there are things we will do as a family  um, especially where my children are involved.
Um,    typically Chri- the  family tradition that we have is Christmas, Christmas is at my house.
So everyone comes to my house for Christmas.
Because I- Right,  because- Right.
Right it's an all day Christmas thing in my house.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
It was small.
My graduating class was sixty three.
And it was all girls school so there were only sixty three in my graduating class and that was in nineteen eighty one.
So um,    I  wasn't really part of the in-crowd.
I was a dork, I was a geek.
Which are- are now the coolest kids you know I was  um,  you know  very thin  and- and young, my birthday doesn't come until December so I was always the youngest  in- in-  in my class.
Um,  also  which is very interesting, when I was growing up  in- even in elementary school  not so much in high school but more so in elementary school in the neighborhood school,  um,  my father's family  as far as complexion wise starts off  really light skin and then as they grow older,  we get darker.
So I was extremely light  when I was a child.
And  very skinny.
And  um, so I was like an outcast because I was made fun of because I was the white girl at the school.
Because all the- In a all black school.
And so I- you know I had a lot of-  of you know,  harassment  because of that, just because of the whole complexion color thing.
Um, it wasn't so much a big thing in  um,  high school because  there- it was mixed, there were all races you know a mixture of diverse  people there,  so.
Oh it was every day.
Mm-hm.
Oh it was- it- it- you know it was nothing subtle about it, cause kids ca- kids can be really  nasty you know.
So it was nothing subtle about it, I was called the white girl  you know between the shape of my nose and my complexion and I had really long hair.
And again my f-  my father  making su- My parents  both grew up very poor.
So,  uh, my father  made it  his goal  that we would do better.
I would do better.
You know um,  so it w- from  age eight I was getting perms and going to the b-  sitting all day Saturday getting beauty sal- in the beauty salon.
Had this long hair,  long straight hair and like I said with my complexion, with  the shape of my nose,  you know kids would call me the white girl, kids would you know-  I wouldn't get to play with the other kids because  you know, they made fun of me.
Mm-hm.
No.
N- No.
I think the opposite.
Yes.
I think the opposite because  um,  within my own race, um, being out- being light skinned was the outcast.
You know,  it was- it was  not being  all in one race or the other.
Even though  obviously  I'm black, I'm African American.
But it was just m-  uh, kids making a lot of fun of me and calling me white and making me you know just,  we won't be bothered with you because you're not dark enough.
But then  um, I started working when I was sixteen.
And um, because of the school I went to,  you know  my after school job  was in the government.
So I started of in the Department of Interior  then I worked in the RD-WORK-3for a while.
An- and I've noticed all-  most-  especially my young  adult life  that  white people are more  comfortable  with  darker skin black people.
It's- I- y- you know,  I don't really-  I can't really say.
But I mean if it- but it's- it's- it's- it's just-  it's-  With them it was a little more subtle.
Um,  but I saw  you know  promotions, saw raises, saw who was treated differently,  who was treated um, a little more friendly.
You look m-  Well I think that's the problem.
Well maybe that it-  It's like when you have a-  uh, well maybe I do- maybe I do think- have an opinion about it,  um,  that  if you have a darker skin person  you know, like you said you know this person  i- is black, African American.
Where you have one who's light skin, like I said I was a lot lighter  in my- up until  maybe about ten,  fifteen years ago.
Then there's that question of Hm.
Maybe  you know.
You know.
So um-  And what's funny is I had  a girlfriend  about twenty years ago  who  was mix-  was- she was  mixed races and  who went through the same things, we could relate on the same things about how we felt we were treated by different people.
Just because of the way we looked.
Did you want all this?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No.
I felt like I was  always put off.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I felt like I was always put off.
Right.
Well c- because- b- well-  Um,  by other women  especially, who were not  you know,  extremely put off.
Um,  by men,  it was-  it was crazy because  we were still in that-  that era where  it was cool  for  a dark skin black man  to have a light skin wife.
And if you look at a lot of  um,  especially the college educated people from the six-  men from the sixties  and the seventies,  they have  light skin wives.
And so it was like that thing that was sought after.
But then on the other hand,  I faced  more  um,  just put off-ness or more just being pushed away or not being embraced  by other b- by  black women.
And it- and it- and it's crazy, it- it's crazy because  I could care less.
But then, Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
It could be both.
It could be both.
Mm-hm.
Right.
School was very diverse it was nothing but girls.
It was a all girl school and it was very diverse you know there white, there were black, there were Latinos,  um,  everybody was there.
No.
It was- it-  it wasn't-  I'm not gonna say it was catty it was just  different  groups of-  of girls.
You had the girls who were uh,  you know  I'm not gonna say they were bullies but they were you know more masculine who were rough and that definitely wasn't me.
And you know  I was  very smart because my father made sure I was smart  you know.
So um,  you know I- I hung around those people.
You know.
And then you had the ones that were just-  just out doing things that they shouldn't have been doing  also.
So yeah I was the l- it was in a little geek squad.
There were five of us.
there were fi- there- there were just five of us and-  and there was nothing really  special about us it was just  five- it was like maybe one or two-  one I knew before I got there.
So we-  we- you know we were then- I met her at  a summer camp that I had been to in Virginia in the mountains.
And uh,  so we ended up at the same high school together so we instantly  clicked  because we already knew each other.
And then I think maybe I met one or two others or she met- and so the f-  the five of us would be really f-  close friends.
Just during school.
Yeah just during school because again,  I lived in Deanwood,  school was downtown.
Cause school was at- RD-SCHOOL-3 was at Ninth and G.
So all of us had to catch the Metro bus to school.
Um, and also while I was in high school is when  Metrorail opened up.
So um-    so it was like we caught the subway and the bus to school so we all lived in different areas.
So-  Hung out at-  No you know after school we- since we were downtown we would hang out some there I remember we used to go to Kemp Mill Records all the time  cause it was right up the street.
Um, it was a record store.
And they always played music there.
So we'd go in there for a few minutes or we'd go to- it was- used to be called  People's Drug Store.
Now it's CVS it was People- we'd whole hang at the drug store.
Um, so it would be  things like that, in the morning we might go to the waffle house cause it was  couple of waffle houses down there and get french fries.
For breakfast.
N- I had to be-  it had to be known where I was going,  when I'd be back,  when- it was very controlled.
It was very controlled, yeah.
Not so much.
I had maybe a couple but not really wild.
So- Right.
Right.
Like uh, if my parents knew-  So our- our um,  brother school  was uh- we considered our brother school Gonzaga even though it wasn't.
Notre Dame was there but we would  like steal their guys.
You know.
So we would um,  I- and I would- I did a lot of after school activities like drama club and- and in the choir and that kind of stuff.
And um,  s- and it was a way not to go home before I started working.
And so um, there was this drama club that I was in after school and then the guys from  Gonzaga would-  would come over  to-  Like we did a-  a production of  um,   West Side Story.
So-  and yes I was Maria.
Of course.
And so then we know that to- f- for the guy roles we'd have guys from Gonzaga come in or whatever.
And so it would be cool  you know  my fa- if my parents only knew I'm riding the subway with these boys,  just riding  to one-  to the end of the line, coming back.
Cause back then it was only two lines.
It was the red line,   and then there was the  orange  slash blue line.
And I would just ride the orange line back and forth, back and forth just hanging out with boys.
You know, my father would have a fit if he knew that.
Ba-  Exactly it's totally different.
Now.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
For me being rebellious was  I had a little boom box-  you know I had a little boom box, playing it on the metro bus.
And that was like taboo back then, you just didn't do that.
You know and for me- for me it was-  it was rebellious for me one, s- I'm sitting in the back of the bus,  which  wasn't  where I was supposed to be.
And then I'm- I'm blasting music.
You know, and it was just like, yeah that's me I'm blasting music back here, I'm cool.
And I wasn't, but now that's nothing.
But back then you could get- you would-  you would get put off the bus  for something like that.
Yeah.
Yes.
No.
Not r- not so much.
Mm-hm.
Oh I w-  I went wild.
I went wild I was seventeen,  I came from this very protective home,  um,  you know I came from a home where I had stuff and you know when I was sixteen I got my license I had  open access to a car but I still had to be home at a certain time, I still had- Y- yeah.
So,  here I am,  seventeen,  without my parents.
in down- when the city of Richmond.
They put me in a dorm room  and they put me in a triple.
Now dorm rooms are nothing like they were back then it was-  it was like  a room,  you had a roommate and then there was a centralized bathroom.
Well they put me,  an only child  in a triple.
One of my roommates smoked weed all the time,  the other one drank all the time.
Here's me.
W- and here's funny,  I um-  um,  I ended up being better friends with  I-  one-  one girl from Hampton, she w-  the black girl  that was smoking weed all the time, the other one was white  she was from Poughkeepsie, New York.
And  I think that  um, the one from Hampton was-  got depressed because she was away from home and you know she just spent her time sitting on her bed looking out the window getting high.
And so she- she wasn't really interacting with us a lot, she would but  it was always me and the other one going some place and  and you know hanging out and we had a couple classes together and it was just yeah.
So she and I  the other girl from New York  we hung out a lot.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I did, I went crazy.
Um, I got introduced to the world of sororities and fraternities.
So I became a Sigma Dove as a freshman.
I did a-  I'm-  One thing that I've done constantly-  consistently in my life  is  I'm the first to do a lot of things.
Um,  being  um,  a Sigma Dove the sweethearts of the Sigma,  freshman didn't do that.
I was a freshman  and I did it.
You know even in my  career, in my job, I've been the first to do a lot of things.
So um, so I  became a Sigma Dove, was hanging out with the Sigmas ,  and uh,  going to all the parties and just having a good time.
My f-  first-    my first  um,    semester-  Now we coming from somebody who in high school in Catholic school made straight A's.
My grades  my first semester,  two B's, two D's, two F's.
Yeah.
Mm.
He was actually very calm about it.
Very calm about it.
Um, he had a talk with me  and um, and- and my father's not a calm person  or rational person, there were a couple of things he was- he would be calm or rational about,  but um, he just  brought the grades into my room,  and said  you know, it's costing us a lot of money  to send you to school.
And I expect better.
I said,  okay.
And so I did better.
Because I knew  I had to do better.
But it was just like- Right it was- or you know-    or the other thing me- I had to come back home if I didn't, I couldn't come back home.
So um, yeah so that was pretty funny.
That- And I straightened up and did better.
But it was like seventeen,  in a new city,  by myself,  unsupervised,  I was all over the place.
Mm-hm.
A Zeta?
In my junior year.
Yeah.
It was.
No.
That was it.
That was it.
Yeah.
Yeah I couldn't- my parents did not want me to work, they wanted me to focus on school  because you know I was like I said the first person in my s- in my family to go to college so I had to do well.
And my father was paying for it so I had to do well.
So um,  all in  the activities I did they were with the D- with the Doves.
I was a Sigma Dove and I did  pretty much everything with them.
Uh-huh.
My father understood it more than my mother because by then my father was at Gallaudet.
So-  Ri- s- right.
So when I  was allowed to come home because you had to ask to come home when you were pledging, cause pledging back then was a lot different than it is now.
Um, but I was allowed to come home for Thanksgiving  and um, for a couple of days then I had to go back,  but back then  you know,  we all wore trenchcoats with our little  emblem on our jacket and a certain hat and a certain way we had to dress and so when I came home  and  I was given an assignment,  cause I was on line  when I came home,  that's what- that's what it was, I was on line when I came home, and um,  they gave me an assignment I had to go to- to the Zeta headquarters and so I had to-  to dress like a Archonian and-  and um,  and go there, and when I was walking out the door  my mother's like, why are you dressed like that?
My father's like, I've seen them dressed like that at work, when he's at work.
So um,  yeah.
It wa- they were cool, they were-  they didn't have any problems putting up the funds for it or whatever I needed to do it because that meant that-  They saw that as  being-  me being more successful.
For them so.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Because and then I sat down and said, you know, these are the things that Zeta Phi Beta um,  you know focuses on  and these are their community service projects,  these are the different countries that they are in just showing them things and they were l- yeah, they were really really cool with it.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Right so then after  I think-  a-  the- another thing I did, I was the first neophyte  at our school to then become dean of the next line.
So  um, you know and then it was a time we weren't even gonna have a line  um, because we decided late and w- and we didn't have enough time to do it but  you know I showed them how we could do it and how I moved these girls and got these girls on line, got all the paperwork we needed they didn't think  that we could get,  and then I became dean of that line.
So it- which was really-  you know,  i- it gave me-  it gave me respect because it's something else I had done an-  and um,  it's something they didn't think  could be- Right.
And um- and it was interesting cause w- while I was on line and then when I became dean of the next line I spent a lot of time over at Virginia Union.
Cause they- cause  at Vi-  Virginia Union,  as in HBCU had-  all the  sororities and fraternities had  rooms, their own  rooms.
So that w- so  I spent a lot of time in the Zeta room over there.
which is  insulated and  not  many people know about it  and can go there.
So it was- it was just weird, it was like every week I was over at Virginia Union  while I was pledging.
And then when I became dean,  back over at Virginia Union.
Back over at Virginia Union, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I didn't graduate on time.
I didn't graduate on time, one of um,  the worst things for me  is  math.
Any type of math whatsoever it's just a deficit it doesn't compute in my brain.
And-  and I knew this, I've always known this.
And so I waited til my senior year  to take algebra one oh one.
Because I knew  and I failed it.
And I failed it.
So it kept me from graduating.
So then I had to make that call home to my father,  D- you know, um- He was.
He was like I said there are certain things um, I can remember  uh, cause my father's v-  has a hot head, hot temper, very-  father's a very mean man.
Um, but there was certain  things that  would happen that he would be- totally be calm.
My mother was good at wrecking cars.
And you know  was good- In the sixties and seventies were wrecking cars and whenever she got in a accident,  he remained calm, he was cool.
Either got the car fixed or just  got another car.
And um, you know so when I call home-  And at that point  I w- had-  I had already started working.
So I went to school for chemical dependency rehabilitation.
So I was already working at two different places as-  as a chemical dependency counselor  while finishing up  school  by then.
Um,  because I had done my-  my um,  internship  at a couple places and then they hired me part time so then- you know so they cou- my parents couldn't argue with that because that was a job working in-  jobs working in my field.
Right.
Right.
So  I had got my grades,  and I remember I was at one of my jobs when I called him to say,  got my grades and I didn't-  you know, I failed math.
And so he was really calm then he said,  what do you wanna do?
I said, I wanna take it over in summer school.
And he said,  find out how much it's gonna cost and let me know.
And I did it and I passed and  so  with the- I was going to finish there was no question it was ju-  Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
What happened?
I finished school,  I stayed in Richmond.
Um,  and I  at one time  had four jobs.
They were all part time jobs, um, two of 'em were  counseling  which didn't pay much money but it was what I wanted to do.
Um, another job I worked at  Traveler's Insurance they had the Medicare contracts so I was processing Medicare claims.
Um, and then  I l-  I worked at  a bank, I worked at um,  I can't even remember the name of the bank now.
Um, but I worked there from four in the morning to twelve noon  processing credit cards, that's when credit cards were  um, when you payed credit card they sw- swiped your card and it was that little s- rectangular piece.
And so I processed those.
So um, yeah I would  work on the weekends, I was single, I had my own place, I had a car,  and uh, so I just worked.
That's all I wanted to do was work.
So I worked all the time.
I just wanted to work.
I just wanted to be on my own and I just wanted to work.
And I didn't wanna come back home.
Back home?
So, on the job that I work at the bank, from four in the morning to-  to noon,  I met my first husband.
He worked five-  five to two.
Five to one.
And um, met him  and then we got married  in eighty seven.
I met him in eighty six, we got married in eighty seven,  my daughter was born in eighty eight.
Um,  he had lost his job and so we couldn't afford to s-  stay together once  I went into labor and had  the baby cause then I couldn't work.
So.
Um,  so the plan was that-  my daughter was born in October,  the plan was that in November around  Thanksgiving  um, the baby and I moved back home.
While he got-  found a job and got on his feet.
The cool thing was that as we were packing up,  he did find a job.
But by then  all our money was gone  from him not working.
So um,  the plan was that  um, I left in November,  by February the baby and I were supposed to go back to Richmond.
And that didn't happen,  so I ended up being here, staying here and then he and I got divorced.
Fifteen months.
And a daughter.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
For a year.
One year.
It- it wasn't good.
It wasn't good.
It wasn't good on a n-  on lots of levels, one,  I didn't wanna be at home.
I was raised to be independent, be on my own, not to rely on anyone.
That's how I was raised, to be self sufficient  and um,  to do  whatever I need to do  on my own.
The other thing is that two mothers in one household do not work.
And the other is that I was right back in this situation  with  my father  and  um,  his own issues and being nasty and mean.
So I had to get the hell out of Dodge as quick as I can.
So soon as I came back,  um,  you know I was there exactly a year.
And then I moved out.
And then  moved into Riverdale.
Yup so I start- so I c- so what happened was I came home in November, um, by February was you know,  uh,  it was determined that I wasn't going back to Richmond,  so I found a job and started working.
And so then by- from February to November is when I saved up all my money and then  my daughter and I moved out.
Mm-hm.
Mm I-  I met  the twins' father.
We didn't- we were planning to get married but we didn't get ma- Right.
Um, so we- we um,    we m-  moved in together when I was pregnant with the twins,  and then we separated  when the twins were like a year and a month old.
When I was a- Oh.
No.
I was working in my field  and at the bank up until  my daughter was born.
When I was living in Richmond.
When I came back home  um,  I thought I was going back to Richmond so I didn't get a job  until it was  obvious I wasn't going back.
So then I started looking for a job,  and I ended up-  started off working  at  a hospital  in billing  in um,  Doctor's Hospital in Arlington,  it's called something else now.
Um,  so,  I did that.
And then from there I started working for  Group Health Adminis-  Group Health Association, GHA they're no longer.
And they were the first HMO in the DC area.
So I worked for them  ooh almost ten years.
And then they decided to pull up out of the area  and  laid everybody off.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
How did I get there?
So- so when I left Richmond and came back here  um,  it ended up I wasn't going back to Richmond that wasn't my plan and my  idea.
And so I didn't want  to  be a counselor  because I felt  that  I had needed to get my own life straight  and my own emotional state straight  before I start- I could help other people with their issues.
And so I just- um, I didn't wanna do that  until I got myself straight.
So I just start- went through  back then you didn't know on the internet  cause there wasn't-  You know, I was in the Washington Post  looking for jobs, and I found  the job at the hospital.
And that's what I did to pay the bills.
And then I found the job at GHA.
And so I was processing  claims-  insurance claims again.
In the hospital I was doing billing.
Um, insurance billing so it was all that so I had that- got that training when I was in Richmond to do  um,  ICD-9 coding and CDT coding and so that's what I did to pay the bills.
And um-  and so from  there,  when they laid everybody off I found a job  as an executive secretary for  th-  Nope.
I'm sorry let me back up.
So-  so after GHA laid us all off I-  um, someone told me about  the DC  Dislocated Workers Program  Which, if you had been on your job for two years in DC or you worked in DC and you got laid off due to no fault of your own, at that time,  there was ten thousand dollars  for you to-  education expenses for you if you wanted to be retrained in a different field.
I don't know if it still exists or not but it was there then.
And so while um, I was out and- and  getting  you know the severance package,  I enrolled in this computer school.
And I learned  everything about computers that I could, I learned  all- everyth- all the-  the Office pro-  Suite programs.
Um,  I  learned C p- C+, C++ and Visual Basic.
And um-  and it was all payed for.
You know.
I took every class.
Right.
Right.
So um-  and this was in the nineties, this was in the mid-nineties so I did that,  and then um,  from there,  I found  the job as an executive secretary for this guy who-  it was a small office and he owned it hisself.
But he  did  environmental consulting  for this group  of peop-  group of guys in Belgium and Japan  which was wonderful for me,  because then I got exposure to international things.
So I got ex- and you know I became exposed to  the Japanese and- and  the  businessman who would come.
And the Belgians  who were my favorite because they always brought me candy and chocolates.
Oh my god.
The  best chocolates.
Uh, which is now I would not- I would very rarely eat Hershey chocolate now because I've been exposed to Better stuff so the l- You know,  Godiva's slumming for me.
You know.
You know it's a- it's a struggle, struggle, somebody gotta do it.
But um,  so from there,  um, I only worked for him about seven  eight months cause he was a tyrant.
And-  and um,  so from there  I  went to  the place I came  from before I came here  which was National Childr-  Children's Alliance.
And I was there for sixteen years.
And from there I- I started off as  um,  executive assistant, and then my-  it's like the more they figured out I knew or things I could do, my position kept evolving.
It was a small non-profit, smaller than this one.
It was- it's a national non-profit but there were only-  and it's  sixteen people at the-  at-  at this.
Yeah.
Only  sixteen people was the highest number of employees we had at one time.
Uh-huh.
Well um, so  from  executive assistant I moved into like  uh,  administrative coordinator,  office manager and- and did all that kind of stuff.
And then I moved into  helping with our conference.
So-  so I already had some event planning experience from doing family things.
And um-  and then I just-  I'm just  well coordinated I guess so I'm good at coordinating things and so I just kept-  And I'm good at making relationships and building relationships and I'm good at negotiating contracts and so it- my position just kept evolving, evolving, and so I went from  administrative coordinator  the  um,  event  management coordinator.
Uh-oh.
I don't rem-  Transfer to the front desk?
The front desk?
Two three- Uh, transfer, Two three zero one.
Transfer.
Transfer?
There you go.
See.
There you go.
And so yeah, so then my- it just kept  evolving and volving.
And then um,  so then they wanted  I had the choice of s-  of staying  you know  as the  assistant to  the CEO  executive director or  moving to  full time event planning and that's what I wanna do so I- I  manage and coordinated all the  conferences, meetings, events,  and it was cool because I got to travel.
And I'm just traveling,  s-  about eight times a year.
And um- cause we were a national organization so we'd ha- so every January I was in San Diego  for a conference and a board meeting.
You know um,  I got to go to Hawaii  because of another conference with this job and then I represented  our organization  at  other  um,  domestic violence and  child abuse organizations so  it was a- it-  it was really fun.
It was fun.
Got here?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I'm not in love with the city.
I'm not  like, I'm gonna stay here the rest of my life, I'm not-  I'm not-  don't have that opinion either.
Um,  before the twins were born-  and I was thirty eight when the twins were born and now they're thirteen so  a lot of what  I may have want- and- and I'm not with their father anymore  and I wanna make sure they stay-  we stay somewhere where they  have that exposure  um, to their father.
Um, my retirement city was New Orleans.
That's where I was gonna be.
That's where I was gonna be I was gonna be in-  in New Orleans  um,  and  this was like twenty years ago I had made that decision so it had nothing to do with Katrina and the levees and nothing like that I was in love with the Garden District of New Orleans and that's where I was gonna retire.
Then  I  ended up  in  Tucson  for  work a couple of times and was like, mm-mm.
I'm retiring in Tucson.
This is where I'm going.
No allergies,  I only had to deal with monsoon season three weeks out of the year,  I got mountains, I got horses cause I love horseback riding,  I got all this going on,  I'm going to Tucson.
I- well.
I don't know where I'm gonna end up.
I don't know.
Um,  DC, I'll be happy to move away from this area  at some point.
Even if it is after- the twins are thirteen,  after they're in college or whatever they're gonna do with their lives.
Um,  I've seen a lot of changes in this city from the sev-  from the sixties.
I mean I was here when the riots were going on.
I remember when the riots were going on I was  three.
And I remember the fires  and  at that time we hadn't moved to Deanwood the house hadn't been built yet, it was being built.
And we lived at Fourteenth and Chapin Northwest.
So there was a Safeway there on Fourteenth Street and some other businesses.
I remember my father  walking us down Four-  walking me down-  sorry.
Um, Chapin Street to Fourteen,  and then two blocks over there was a Safeway.
And  I remember him putting me on his shoulders and we watched that Safeway burn down.
And my mother was livid.
Because you know it was dangerous, and he had her child out there.
So I remember the riots, I remember you know  the fires, the looting, I remember that.
I remember that cause I remember seeing it, it was so overwhelming, now I don't remem-  there are things from me being four and five I don't remember.
Um, but there are f- some things from- from living at that apartment when I was young I do remember.
There are some things I did I do remember.
Um, but that's one of the things I definitely remember those.
Oh we're longer than that.
We're almost fifty.
Mm-hm, f- uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right because it's- it- it's nothing-  DC is nothing  like it was when I was a child.
It's nothing, the buildings are all different,  um, things you know  streets are different, they look different, people who live here are different.
It's hard to find someone who is originally from DC.
It's- DC is now full of transplants  who can't park.
They don't know how to parallel park.
because they're coming from places where you just pulled in parking.
So  you know back in the day, people's bumpers were not torn up the w- I hate come park-  bringing  my vehicle into the city because  people don't know how to park, they feel like parallel parking  you- you know,  when you bump somebody's car,  that's when you stop  and pull forward when you're parking and it's like-   Yeah.
So um, but it's full of transplants it's full of- like you said it was chocolate city, it was you know-  you know we were in the city,  and everyone else was on the suburbs.
Now it's  we've moved out of the city because  we can't afford to live here anymore.
You know  homes  in bad neighborhoods  cost a million dollars.
That is crazy.
That is crazy, I remember um,  maybe about fifteen years ago  my aunt lived in Sh-  the Shaw neighborhood.
And there were these three houses on R Street  between  like Rhode Island and R cause R kind of is like diagonal.
And  there were these three houses on the left hand side,  and I looked up those houses and they were like a million point two.
And Rhode Island and R street  ten years ago, ten, fifteen years ago.
And it's- that's just crazy.
And um-  I mean I like  the-  the-  the-  you know the building and development that's being done with  like the whole little  condos and- and apartments and they're very pretty and-  and they look really nice,  but who can afford to live in 'em?
You know, an- and I know people who have been forced out of their homes because now  you know it's been re- their neighborhood has been rezoned and taxes have gone up  and they just cannot afford to live in the city anymore.
And that's a shame.
Because most of the people who are being moved out are elderly people.
Right.
Right well, we- it was built in the sixties,  and they built it and it's been paid off.
I mean  that was one thing my father was about,  money and  having more than what he came here with, my father always worked two jobs even when he didn't have to.
And so  the house was paid o- they got a thirty year mortgage and that house was paid off in thirty years, there was no second mortgage on it there was nothing.
He was determined  that  he paid his bills and paid 'em on time.
So, you know for the past twenty  three years  that house has been payed for  and it's his.
Now my parents are separated Um, they been separated for over twenty years but they'll never get divorced.
And  um,  you know, my mother  moved out  and bought a condo not far from here and um-  But I mean we still all go to the house, my mother- you know we're-  we're all welcome there.
But  m-  that house is still in my parents' name.
And it's payed for free and clear.
But-  Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
The only reason my aunt, the one that raised my mother,   um,  she died in two thousand seven.
And she was eighty five then.
The only reason she was able to still stay in the city was because uh, we're members of  Asbury United Methodist Church.
So it's a big church and there's a lot of money in that church.
And they own  Asbury Dwellings which is on Rhode Island  Avenue near Seventh Street, Rhode Island and Seventh Street.
And so she was able  you know  to move into Asbury Dwellings  and pay minimal rent there.
Because she had been retired for so many years  that was the only way she was able to stay in the city.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
You know the last time I been in the Washington Monument I was in second grade, I was eight years old.
Um, I guess because I take it for granted,  because I've grown up with it and it's no big deal.
When I was working at  National Children's Alliance and I was the  you know, the c-  coordinator of the conference, their annual conference, and so there would be five hundred people from across the united states coming in.
And they'd always call me about  if the cherry blossoms are blooming, will they be in bloom when the- when the- you know the conference is there, you know they asking me about those damn pandas, I'm like, I don't care about the damn pandas.
And that's because I'm here with it and I see it every day and I guess I take it for granted.
And every once in a while I'll stop  and take-  you know if I'm driving downtown for something  um, and go that way especially at night cause DC is beautiful at night.
The monuments and all the white stone, it's just beautiful at night.
And I'll stop and take a pause and  you know.
Um, I l-  my kids love the FDR memorial.
Um,  love it so we'll go down there- And just walk through it.
And um-  and it gets me angry that they don't take care of it like they should.
Um,  you know FDR,  he should not be you know-  it's brass, he should not be all rusted up like that n- and- but-  And then they don't have all the fountains going all the time and that just makes me angry when they could take care of it.
But um,  well Teddy Roosevelt Island's the same way too, they don't take care of that one either over there.
Yeah.
Um,   but every once and a while I'll stop and I'll pause and I'll take a look you know I don't go into the Smithsonians, my kids do,  but I did that when I was growing up  and it's just like  again,  take it for granted because it's right there in my backyard and I  could care less about it and I don't like crowds and  mm-mm, I'm sorry.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
And that's the only thing.
I don't like crowds.
I stay away from crowds.
And so when it's tourist season and all those  buses are down there and all those people are down there I stay away.
You know I have- I know certain places where I can park, I can park legally  and  the-  near where I wanna go,  and those are where  you know I'll do that so I don't have to deal with the crowds.
And you know I don't  even- I can't put my finger on it, I think that  me being from DC,  you know  I'm a native- m- my mother says I'm a native Washingtonian  with  one parent from South Carolina, one parent from North Carolina,  um, and me living in Richmond  I've got a lot of Southern influence  within me.
And so  uh, it's just  I usually can tell  when someone- especially someone my age  or someone forty or over  I can usually tell  if they're from DC or not  or if they  you know migrated here from South or if they came from like the Ohio Valley here.
So go go music was popular  actually when I was away in college.
I did- I mean I knew about it, we listen- I listened to it some but it wasn't a big thing for me just because of the timing of it and that I wasn't here when it was a big thing.
When it blew up I wasn't here.
Right.
So-  and for me  uh, of course I know who Chuck Brown is, father of go go and  l- liked the music,  but just because of the timing  I was more into his later  stuff than the earlier stuff or the part where it really blew up.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I don't-  an- and I'm a little different cause I'm not either the love or the hate, I can say- I'm right in the middle.
If it's on,  I will listen to it.
Um,  I won't go- it comes on and then I'm like, I don't wanna hear that, it's not like that, or I go seek it out.
If it's on or if I'm at a party and it's playing, yes I'm gonna dance yes I'm gonna enjoy it, but I don't seek it out.
And it was funny cause when I was in Chicago last weekend with my husband  and um,  they have house music.
You know, and my husband introduced me a few years ago to house music.
And I was like,  that's not right cause it's supposed to be go go, he was like, no you all have go go we have house, and so when um,  we were hanging out with some of his friends this weekend and we were at a bar and they were playing house music  and uh-  and so one of th-  the ladies asked me,  you're from DC?
and I said, yeah, she goes,  do y'all have this?
No we have- I was proud to say, no we have go go.
No we don't have this, we have go go.
It's a little bit slower, and a little more- you know have more beat to it than this kind of Like kind of like mindless, to me it's a little mindless you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Mm-hm mm-hm.
I'm not into m-  you know I'm on- again, I can take it or leave it.
I can take it or leave it.
Um,  And the thing about n-  back in the day  mumbo sauce was mumbo sauce, now depending on what- which  restaurant you go to it'll be orange, it'll be brown, it'll be purple, it'll be light, it'll be dark, it's not  consistent anymore.
So.
No.
It used to- Right.
It's- it is whatever they wanna call it.
You know what I'm saying?
Um, so I was never really heavy into it  um, but every once in a while like if I was eating some- off of someone else's plate and they had it on their wings and stuff then I would  but  yeah.
Um- I only eat it on wings.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe french fries.
Right.
Right.