Here.
Um, Southeast Washington DC.
Uh I was actually  born and raised in  A Street  off of Alabama Avenue.
Um,  yeah maybe like, eight blocks  down  um,  in Park Lane.
Yes, always on this side.
Yes.
RD-SCHOOL-7 High School.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yes.
Yes.
I have a internship at the Department of Energy.
Photography.
It's a photography internship.
So I'm taking passport pictures and working on, um,  Photoshop Six.
So,  basically getting comfortable,  and they're hav- they have me shooting with a Nikon uh,  B three hundred.
I normally shoot with a Cannon, but they're teaching me how to use the Nikon.
And other than that,  um,  we have energy meetings,  just learning about  different forms of energy  like  coal and the way it's used and  solar panels, things of that nature.
Uh, I want to be a photographer.
And- Uh, I actually got the internship  through Miss RD-NAME-4,  and she came to  um,  Art Night.
And that's a DCPS,  art show  that's hosted in um,  Gallery Place  in the Pepco Building.
And- Yes.
And  there we have students from DCPS, and their teachers submit their art work.
And  my teacher from my high school, Mr.
RD-NAME-2,  he submitted five of my pieces.
So  one of 'em  was a um,  a live auction piece  And the other four were um,  were on the wall,  and  they were being um, bidded- bidded on  by just like, different government workers and people who were interested.
And the highest one was the um, live auction piece, and it sold for six hundred and fifty dollars.
And the other one fell- I mean,  not very close but  not too far under that range.
And all the money  that was collected that night  goes back into DCPS  um,  art  programs  for art supplies.
Uh, the one that went for six hundred and fifty dollars was  of my school building.
Uh, RD-SCHOOL-4 recently  um-  They got-  They had the school rebuilt,  and we have some fantastic um, architecture now.
And I took a picture from the inside of the school building of our cafeteria.
And  it was facing  outside-  in the outside, uh, we have a courtyard  in the middle our school.
And  the way the windows curve,  it makes like a- a cool picture.
And I t-  took that shot from the-  the cafeteria,  and I named it Window Wave and it sold.
I was the first person to actually take that picture I think  because the school-  Well, we were the first class-  class of twenty fifteen to graduate out of the new building.
And  we went into the building half way through the school year.
So- Yeah, and- Yes.
High school for me- I mean I went to the same school for nine years.
I mean, not nine years- Since ninth grade, but for four years.
And  when I first got there,  of course, um, RD-SCHOOL-3 High School is in Ward Eight,  so  a lot of people pass judgement on it.
I mean  back  maybe  two thousand and four,  it was not the best school,  and it still isn't the best school.
Um,  mainly because it's like the neighborhood  kids  are the ones that  are  majorily- like um,  the majority in school.
So, they come from broken homes  and  some have like, behavior issues.
And it's not  any type of um,  standardized tests to get in the school or anything like that.
So,  when people get kicked out of some schools, they come to our school, or at least that's how it used to be.
And they  come to our school, and they get into fights and things like that.
And  a lot of violent things  did happen.
And now it- The school has changed  from me-  From the time I came and graduated,  I think it got better and better every year in my opinion.
In my four years, the biggest change I seen  was the um,  automotive program.
I been in-  a part of the automotive program when I was in high school for  all four years.
And  your freshman year, you can't  be a automotive student  because they say you're too um,  like, playful, childish,  juvenile  to be around cars  and  things of that nature.
But I did their summer internship,  um,  ninth grade summer.
And the summer internship  with applying for and going through it, you get class credits  for- if you take the class during the school year.
So my first time ever taking a class was during the summer time, and then when I went  tenth grade year,  I took the class.
And then eleventh grade-  I mean tenth grade summer I did the summer time- I did the summer time internship again,  and I got credits for it, but  it actually started off as  um-  It was a lawnmower, like maintenance  type of class,  and they taught you- Yeah, it- it just taught you how to um- Well way back in the day, they just taught you how to fix lawnmowers  in the class,  and like, work hands on- do hands on work.
And I thought, wow, some guy had  uh, the idea that it should be automotive shop  for the students to uh, work on cars.
And that's what they created  uh, through the help of um,  Darcars and Toyota.
And they invested a lot of money into the program and made a internship and paid students-  I mean, more than um,  minimum wage and more than summer jobs  pay students- I'm-  pay their workers, their summer workers.
So,  you get the experience  and you get paid  a l- nice amount of money  and you learning, and if you  really interested in it, you can get a internship  and  possibly work for Darcars after you finish high school.
In school?
Uh- Maybe uh, like a brawl.
Just like a lot of kids fighting at the same time.
I mean- Yeah, it was just fists.
And this was um, possibly  ninth-  Well,  not ninth because I didn't see too many fights in the ninth grade.
Unintelligible.
I was on the fourth floor, so  a lot of people that fought were upperclassmen, and they were on  like the first and second,  maybe even um, third floor.
Like um,  tenth graders  will get into fights sometimes.
But  my senior year,  uh, twenty fifteen,  walking through the hallway going to class- I think it was my first period class.
I was walking past the bathroom,  and I seen these two guys- They were like in a um,  just getting into a altercation.
They were arguing.
And I'm not sure what it was about, maybe like uh  neighborhood related.
So,  a guy was uh, was telling the other one to um, the other student, to step into the bathroom.
He wanted to I guess, fight,  but he didn't want to do it in front of everybody.
He was telling him to step into the bathroom,  and this of course made the other guy really angry  cause he wanted to like- like, why do you want me to step into the bathroom?
So  um,  after awhile of just  talking and  arguing,  uh, one of the guy's friends, or  family member that went to the school?
He just   hit the other kid,  and they- Of course, they started fighting.
And during the time of them fighting, one of them- the guys pulled out um,  a razor blade.
It was-  It was like,  I'm not sure what type of uh, razor it was,  but when he pulled it out,  um,  the blade came out,  and it fell on the floor.
But had that not happened,  someone  possibly could have got stabbed.
And,  I mean, of course security was rushing  to the fight but,  not in time.
I don't think they would have got there in time if that razor blade had not fal- fell out of um,  his hand  or  just uh,  just a thing that he had in his hand.
Yeah, and most of the time it's at school.
I mean, uh,  my neighborhood-  I mean I wasn't really born- I was born in a neighborhood,  but  my neighborhood got torn down  uh,  maybe like,  six years, seven years prior to me being born,  so  just growing up  in that neighborhood,  like being from somewhere, it's something that I couldn't like,  hold on to because my neighborhood was torn down.
And they made um,  condos.
They turned 'em into uh, condominiums, so.
I moved,  and when I moved, I moved into another neighborhood, Parkland,  not too far from where I was born and raised,  and  there, I didn't really relate with a lot of neighborhood kids.
Cause I used to like to,  and still do uh, to this today, like to skateboard,  and things of that nature, so I didn't have too many things in common with  my um-  Just- just the-  the kids in my neighborhood-  the young males in my neighborhood.
So, I used to always go up the street  to um, find people to  hang outside and play with.
And I found a group of kids to skateboard with and ride my bike and things of that nature.
So,  that kept- that- that- that kept me out of like, just being  in the mix  or  getting down with my neighborhood-  I mean the neighborhood that I moved to, just didn't getting down with those type of  individuals that was from there.
So,  that-  th- th-  Me moving kept me out of a lot of trouble,  and me skateboarding kept me out of a lot of trouble.
Yeah, some people from my neighbor- neighborhood that I moved to- Some people didn't like it.
I mean,  I would never be  down there as often,  so when I go out to skateboard, it was always  uh-  Either what-  I had one neighborhood friend that skateboarded with me, and he knew a lot of people in the neighborhood, so I- I think he kind of kept me safe.
But  once I got old enough to just go outside and go up the street and wander off, I started going up the street- up the hill  to a m- um,  another neighborhood  where  a lot of my friends uh,  well people that became my friends had  same or common interests  just as me, so.
Uh, this was Henter- Henson Ridge, and they call it H and R.
And between Henson Ridge and um,  fifteenth place, one five.
And that's up the street from um,  Parkland,  where I was uh, where I moved to.
Yes.
My parents uh- my mom is from-  She's from  Greensboro, North Carolina.
And my father's from- He-  He's from here also, Southeast Washington DC.
Um,  My mom, she passed away when I was five months.
Um, not sure of her job title.
My dad, he wasn't really  in my life.
Uh,  I was basically raised my grandparents.
My grandfather and grandmother.
Um, my grandmother, she was like uh-  I mean, growing up she just took care of the family.
Just took care- I mean I had a lot of- It was a lot of like, knuckleheads in my family.
Uh,  if you can imagine just like, what was going on in our neighborhoods.
My uncles and cousins, she-  they were just  getting into different things,  trying all different things, so she  kind of kept them all together just trying to keep the family together.
And my grandfather, he moved um-  He came here from North Carolina  also,  and  he used to work on the trash cr-  trash truck.
Um,  he worked on a trash truck, and then  he went to um,  the Army.
So,  those are the two people who raised me growing up.
Uh no.
My father has  me- including- including me, he has four kids.
I have  three older brothers.
Yeah.
I was the um, baby.
I have- have one older sister on my mother's side.
Yeah.
Yes.
Um, a bit much,  but I still kind of-  I still kind of- I wasn't um,  spoiled to the point where it effected like,  my behavior  cause I still was outside, and I still seen  what was realistic.
Uh,  I just always  like, just  be in different neighborhoods.
I was never in just my neighborhood.
I had cousins that lived in um- I mean relat- like,  it was  close  together  within the same community, but just branched off in different neighborhoods.
So growing up,  I seen  just like,  homeless people m-  downtown.
This- this is when I started skateboarding downtown,  and I seen homeless people,  and just like,  a lot of just like, um,  people that didn't have much,  that was just outside on the streets.
Uh, you'll see the same  just like the same kids,  my age,  no shirt on walking around, and they may have the same pants on for maybe three days.
But they just walking around and I just say hey to 'em, but they just look like-  Oh you can just see that they just out there  in the streets just looking for something.
And I'm not sure  if they have a home or  what type of environment they live in,  but this is just the things that kept me  kind of- kind of focused.
Uh, needless to say,  I seen  uh,  just like, a lot of-  a lot of people just like, struggling.
So even in my um,  family, I didn't have everything I needed.
So,  my grandfather had a government job, and  he used to always try to get my family members jobs and things like that  in the same building.
Uh, he worked on Bolan Air Force Base, so he's always tried to get relatives in my family a job  or just let them know what's out there.
Just help them out  because I mean,  after high school, most of my family members just  try to get like, small jobs  just to um, contribute to uh-  If they have families, the families they have.
No, we always lived together like, uh,  just within like the same- within a f-  five minute drive maybe,  ten minute walk.
So,  I mean I didn't come up with-  with living  with like, a big house with a lot of my family members in it,  but it seemed that way  because my aunt, she used to always  drive over to the house and  this way my cousins an- um-  Like in the mornings, I remember growing up,  um, going to school in the mornings,  my aunt,  she worked on Bolan Air Force Base,  and she had three um,  three kids, my cousins.
And waking up,  I used to wake up for school,  and I used to have to open the door  come downstairs to open the door for my um, my three cousins  because she had to leave out for work at six o'clock.
So she used to drop um, my cousins off at our house so that  within like, the next hour, hour and a half they can go to school from our house while she go to work  at six.
So,  I mean every morning I see my cousins  and  my um, my uncle, he used to uh-  Well, my other cousin- my older cousin,  he used to live with us.
My grandmother, um-  He was kind of back and forth out of jail  at um, one time in his life.
And  to keep him just like, stable my-  my grandmother would let him li- live with us.
So he moved in with us,  and  he was just like, in the living room,  and I was  just back and forth, in and out of my room going to school  and just things like that.
After school,  I would come home,  and my cousins that went to school with me in the mornings,  or just went to school, they would all come back to my house.
And my aunt after work, she would be at my house sometimes.
So, we all  were together,  but kind of  just in different locations at the same time.
Yeah, every day.
Nuh-uh.
It was never that way.
Unless- Unless my godmom would come pick me up.
I have uh, a godmother.
She used to always- She- She lived in Wa- She- She lived- She- She fro- She's from here  but she moved to Waldorf, and she's always picked me up on the weekends  and take me  to her house  and with my god um,  my godsisters and brothers.
So,  I got to be over there on the weekends, and that helped me  get away from it all.
Like, just not be  just in Southeast my whole life.
Used to travel,  uh, Disney World, Busch Gardens, things like that.
She had different um, timeshares in resorts  that she used to take us on,  so that gave me another-  a- an- another just like, definition of family cause when I went over there, we had to do chores,  and  we just had to wake up a certain time.
You could't sl- like, just sit around in the house.
Uh,  she took like, your education was like,  very important.
Like Cs to her was a F,  used to always have to have As and Bs.
This influenced me  um,  uh, she had like uh-  Over there was like a more strict lifestyle,  and she always gave me  more room because I wasn't like  her blood child,  but I still learned from these type of things.
Uh, she had her kids in young Marine programs,  and  just like JROTC uh, in high school  and things like that.
So getting-  getting out of the neighborhood going over there and traveling  and just  doing chores.
It just like, gave me structure.
And then wh- i- it made me want more  than what I had  or what I seen  just on- on a regular basis  throughout the week.
So to go over there on the weekends, it like ?.
Yeah, every weekend, and she used to come pick me up.
Every weekend.
Like, all I have to do is call her and pack my bag  for the weekend and she would come.
Yeah, they- They- they were more like my sisters and brothers.
E- Ev- Even- even my cousins, like, we were all so close, they were like my sisters and brothers,  so.
Mm-hm.
No my sister uh, she uh- I lived with my sister growing up,  and  she was uh- she was always in the house.
Uh,  I was never in the house,  so- Yeah.
So I- I talk to her when I'm in the house but other than that I'll be outside all the time.
All the time.
And  as far as my brothers,  I only know one of 'em.
He um,  I grew up  uh, going over to my father house maybe a couple times,  and seeing two of my brothers.
One of 'em I haven't seen in like, I don't- Forever.
But  one of my brothers, he um, growing up, he used to come pick me up  take me and my um,  my first cousin,  which is like my brother- He used to take to us like- I remember one time he took us bowling,  and we had a ball.
And he used to take me out, just take me out, just riding around with him.
But most of the time, he wouldn't be doing but- so much, but just like hanging around by the stores with his friends, or he j- j- just take me out with him.
And I probably just be sitting out there with him or sitting in the car  for a few minutes or hours,  and then he'd bring me back in the house but he's always come pick me up at o- some point in time  before he um-  He got locked up.
And  one of my um,  my brothers, like these are my older brothers.
They're like in their thirties.
One of 'em uh, he- he's in the Navy.
The one I didn't see  so often.
And the one that's um, he's like close to my age, um,  I haven't really seen these guys like,  so mu- We wasn't real close,  but  like,  I know that  th- they're my brothers,  so  we-  I mean one of 'em-  He was more around me than the other two,  but it kind of worked out.
I learned from- I learned different things from these type of situations Uh,  it wasn't  no, like I- I- I didn't lack anything  or I didn't really blame them for anything.
I just  picked up like different experiences  from it.
Like when I seen- Like when I started to see his face, I will remember him or  started to call him and talk to him about certain things,  but I didn't really-  I wa- I was never around them to pick up  on like,  just like, different things.
So I just took away as much as possible, just like, from the interactions I had with 'em  growing up.
Oh it's crazy because  I came to the Boys and Girls Club -  I um-  I actually rejoined not too long ago,  but when I first- first started coming down here,  it was because one of my um, elementary school friends.
And he was kind of like my brother.
We used to always hang around.
Um, we went to elementary school together,  and after school he lived right across the street from my elementary school.
Um, RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School.
Yes.
We went to that school before it got remodeled,  and he used to live directly across the street,  so after school I used to go over his house.
And sometimes we would leave and go to my house,  but his grandmother worked in the ARC  side of the Boys and Girls Club.
The Boys and Girls Club and the ARC is connected,  along with the Covenant House.
Uh, his grandma worked in the ARC,  and we used to always come-  come in and just do our homework.
We would come in- I started  just- just hang out with him, so  of course like,  it didn't stop at just me going over his house.
We just  went to school.
I went over his house and then we went to the Boys and Girls Club or the ARC.
But  when we used to hang around in his grandmother office,  and then  he used to be like, okay.
He would say bye to his grandma and then he would say, I'm going to the Boys and Girls Club.
And we'll just-  just walk right up- r- like,  open the door, and then go-  go across to the other side, and then we on the um, in the Boys and Girls Club.
And there we played like video games  and  I didn't do much because at the time, I wasn't a teenager, and  I couldn't get into the te- the Teen Center.
That's what I always wanted to do.
I wanted to go in the Teen Center  for some reason.
It was like a pool table back then,  and things like that.
It was a game room.
I used to always play uh,  different games and like, bumper table- Um,  bumper pool  and  I paid uh, after awhile, I paid a twenty dollar club fee.
And his mom used to  take me home after we leave the club,  so she um, got my  grandparents involved.
And they end up uh, paying  the club- the member fee.
And I came down and got my ID,  and  I used to always come down,  but  after awhile, my friend moved.
And after he moved,  I ended up um,  I went to middle school,  and I met new friends.
So,  they wasn't really coming down to the club.
I didn't have anybody to influence me to  continue to go the club, and I thought there was no reason to come to the Boys and Girls Club  after my friend left.
So I had nobody to really  go with and the people that- the- the new friends I met at um,  middle school,  they didn't go to the Boys and Girls Club, so I kind of forgot about it.
But  um,  after like, not being in the Boys and Girls Club,  I was just like,  in the neighborhood up the street from where I lived and with my friends, like the group of us, we used to always skateboard.
We was up the street skateboarding or I'd be at my friend house playing video games.
Or we be like making skate videos like, um, editing our skate videos- the- the videos that we record throughout the day,  and putting them together, watching a movie  or something like that at my friend's house.
But  um, last year, my junior year of high school,  my um, cousin-  Because-  When I was going to elementary school, my cousin used to play um-  He was in um-  He was in middle school when I was elementary school, and he used to play basketball  come down here and play basketball for the um, the club team,  and  uh, my junior year last year,  he came down and played basketball.
He was like, I'm going to play basketball.
And I was like, where you playing basketball at?
And he said, The Boys and Girls Club.
So I'm like, well I haven't been down there in a long time.
You going down there to play basketball?
I'm coming down there with you.
So  um,  I just came in.
And there was just like, a welcoming feeling when I came in, and I- I was coming in to just like, play basketball,  and  every since the first time, like, that welcoming feeling- I just- I just felt that same welcoming feeling just over like again and again and again  because like,  um,  uh-  It- it was a way for me and my-  my cousin to just like, bond and connect, through like playing sports  and working out.
And then,  I w-  I got out the house.
Uh, my friends-  My friends that I was skateboarding with, one of 'em moved to Texas um,  not too long ago so he was gone.
We used to always be in his house um,  watching these skate videos and watching movies  and playing the video games, so I didn't have too much  to do besides be outside and skateboard by myself or with one of my other friends  that um,  I was skating with back in the day.
So, being down here, I just um,  I ended up just- just meeting and running into different like, r- r-  um, resources.
So, I just come down- I starting coming down  um, b- became a active member.
I met  a lot of positive people  um,  on just like,  the multiple trips down here over the time,  and  it gave me a place just to like, just get out of the-  t- t- to get out of the house.
Um,  I used to fall asleep  a lot  just trying to do my homework in the house  or maybe I couldn't focus because my grandfather, my sister was um,  arguing  sometimes, and  I couldn't really focus  just in the house  and like, just trying to just lay down like-  Most of the time, I did my homework in the house,  I would lay down and over wh- over um, a period of time, I would fall asleep.
And when I would wake up, I wouldn't w-  I either wouldn't want to do it anymore,  or  I'd just forget about it.
So coming down here gave me resources of- just having like um,  a computer, like computer access,  uh, I didn't like  using the library computers because it's um, it's timed.
And after you run out of the um-  after that time period is over,  if you're not finished, your stuff possibly can be deleted.
And if  you are finished, you just stuck in that scuffle, just trying to hurry up and save it.
Hurry up and save it.
So,  I didn't really like uh, staying  after hours after school was over to  type up exays-  essays either.
So it gave me the resources of having a computer  and just being around positive people.
And then after awhile, I started like, just joining um,  programs.
And even in programs that I just listened on I learned stuff, like money- like how to manage your money,  and they had a um,  Image Makers photography  program  that  gave me  the opportunity t- to just like,  like extend my art.
S- s- I did um, photography in h- in high school  during um,  during school time.
So after school was over,  uh, I can take what I learned in class down here to Image Makers, the photography program at the Boys and Girls Club  and tell my club members what I learned about photography in school.
And they're learning from me, and we're learning at the same time.
And  with this, I'm still  focusing on photography, and I'm still doing photography so it-  photography became like,  um,  a art,  for me but it became like, twenty four seven.
Like from just me  taking pictures on my phone  to coming down here and using the different Nikon and Cannon cameras  to being in school  uh, using a Cannon camera.
And they having the same computer I had at school, working on um-  Well they didn't have-  did- didn't have Photoshop on the computers down at the Boys and Girls Club  but I could still  tell club members  how to use it, and what I learned in Photoshop and that I was using Photoshop.
And they had iPhoto that I used in school so,  I was just doing the same things in school when I came down here along with doing my homework  and knocking other things out.
And over that time, I f- I um,  found a mentor, Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
And  uh, it's crazy cause we was just talking about um, how we met not too long ago.
And  it was just me  playing basketball, and  I just learned his name, just from the other club members calling him Mr.
RD-NAME-2, and I started calling him Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
And then after awhile, we starting playing around with him um,  asking me just about-  just about the money situation.
Like my m- um,  my member fee.
And  we was talking about that, and  he got the money.
And we just clicked.
He started helping me out  um,  little bit.
He just always  just stayed a extra fifteen minutes, maybe fifteen or thirty minut-  minutes  waiting for me.
Being the last person  um, out the Boys and Girls Club  some nights  tryna type my essay  or finish my essay  before um, 0 it was due.
So he helped me out  with that part,  and just like-  just him  living not too far from where I live, we both lived up the street.
So I can always call him,  or if I needed to talk to him, I can just  leave my house and walk a block down the street  and go to his house.
So he was always open,  0  that really helped me  just like, having a mentor  and just like,  just different type of mentors cause I looked up- I mean, you can find a mentor  in  uh,  just a person that's on the street  and that's doing-  doing illegal things.
Or you can just um,  have multiple mentors where you learn from  your older friends.
Cause I had a older friend,  uh,  growing up.
I used to always learn from him,  but I thought everything he did was right.
And that the only-  the only way to do things until I met Mr.
RD-NAME-2, and I'm like, oh,  well,  somethings he tell me are wrong.
And it's possible that  people that's older than you can be wrong sometimes.
So.
Yeah, it gave me a different n- n- different aspects on things.
Ah,  it's very hard to choose one.
Mm,  it probably would be  maybe just like, going on a field trip.
Uh, we have a lot of field trips.
And the field trips are my favorite part of being down at the Boys and Girls Club.
Uh, one of my favorite field trips was  um,  the Macy's um, window  unveiling.
Um,  it was this-  this past December.
It passed, and  we went up to  Macy's  um,  with our cameras.
It was like a um-  It was-  It was like a three layer trip  where  from the morning uh- I think from like eight o'clock to maybe twelve,  we were out  um, making Thanksgiving baskets for families who didn't have 'em.
And families came in to get they baskets and they turkeys and things like that.
And l- we were- They in there playing basketballs,  um,  making t shirts,  just a whole lot of different activities,  along with um,  having-  just having fun.
So that was the first part of the day.
Then after we left  from um-  from doing that- Of course I was taking pictures,  and I got a lot of good pictures from that event.
We left and we went to um, Macy's downtown  Washington DC and  we seen different performances from uh, people like um-  I remember um,  Mali Music, he was there.
He performed,  and my first time ever seeing him perform.
It was amazing.
And I got a lot of um,  different pictures of him on stage along with um-  It's a famous  um,  ballerina.
She came from the ARC,  and she performed-  Well she didn't perform, she um- she was inside Macy's  uh,  giving her autograph and taking pictures.
So  after that event,  we um,  kept it moving and  that event was uh,  pretty cool to me because my high school band RD-SCHOOL-4 um,  the RD-SCHOOL-2 um, majestic- majestic  marching knights were there,  and I got pictures of um, my high school band while I was at the event.
So- and I heard them perform which is amazing cause they're so good  um, coming out of Ward Eight  um, Southeast DC.
So after that,  we went to um,  Maryland University,  and it was for um-  I think it was for like-  We went to like this  screening of this um-  It was a video 0 about- It was based on, just music.
Uh, where did music come from?
And it went all the way back to just like, um,  Africa  and beating on congos and things of that nature.
And they had like just  a lot of people  just like dancing  and playing the congos  And it was a um, a video premier.
It was like a screening,  and I just got to  see just like,  different culture,  and just like,  like face to face,  what people who just like, had dreadlocks.
And  I mean,  they wore just like-  the- they were so natural,  and they did like uh, natural dances and things like that.
So, it was a learning experience and throughout this whole day, I got like,  maybe  eight hundred pictures,  throughout the whole day,  which was uh,  really good for me cause I took 'em to school of f- course.
I took 'em back to my photography teacher in school.
And  he said that they were amazing,  and it was building my portfolio,  and again it's expanding on my art  and just giving me a love for um-  a deeper love for photography.
So that was like my favorite um,  m- one of my favorite memories of just being down at the Boys and Girls Club.
And  another one  uh-  I think it had to be-  It was a laser tagging uh,  field trip  that we went on.
Over night laser tagging.
It was crazy fun.
We uh,  went around about-  I think it was about  nine o'clock at night?
And we got back  around seven, eight o'clock that morning.
But  we went into the uh, laser tagging facility,  and it was like this big laser tagging arena  along with like uh,  this course in um, I think it was  Virginia.
They had Tactical,  which is like,  it's like a Call of Duty type of laser tagging where you use like, more l- realistic guns,  and it- th- th- they look realistic.
And  you-  you do like, a mission.
It's just not- just like, shooting lasers at each other.
You just like-  It's like a um, a assignment that you got to uh, achieve  throughout the um, time period of a game.
And then along with  it being those two things there, it was um,  like miniature golf,  which was crazy, and then they had a um- a- a- Yeah.
They had a miniature golf  um, section  in there.
It was like, made out of like, wood  and like, fake grass.
It was like putt putt.
It was real fun though.
And um,  they had beverages, and like, we brought lot of things to snack on.
And  it was one other thing that was there, that we did.
Oh, um, they had a Xbox.
And it was like a projector screen  from like,  uh,  the top of this uh,  platform  that  had the um,  laser tagging inside of it.
So you can sit on,  like, it's kind of like this patio,  if you will, and play the game  from this uh, projector screen that's on the other w- side of the wall  going like um,  like uh, over top of the Tactical course.
And we can play the uh, Call of Duty or NBA um,  NBA uh, basketball game.
So, between those f-  four different activities- I mean, you can only imagine.
Like, we had a blast that whole night.
And I thought- Yeah, I tried to,  until I- I- I eventually-  Well I stayed up the whole night,  but I fell asleep on the bus ride.
We um-  we left around six, seven o'clock, and we stopped at McDonald's before we uh,  went home.
And after eating man, I went- I went straight to sleep.
And we still have the pictures of it.
And  just li- Yeah.
Yes,  most definitely.
Uh, I think the club saved my life  because um,  it's just like a lot o- j- It's  like,  just a lot of deaths in my neighborhood.
Um, just my environment,  just b-  It- It's just from being at the wrong place at the wrong time.
So the club just kept me out of the- out of the way  of things.
I mean I never had intent  to just be in the streets,  but I mean  a lot of people who-  who pass away ever- like,  everyday- day to day, they-  They don't have just like,  no intent on just being somewhere  d-  doing something they had no business.
They could just be walking around r-  I mean, doing something  uh, wrong place wrong time.
And  get killed.
So,  uh, I think the club just kept me  out of the way.
So.
A- u- o- Mali Music.
Um, Mali Music is uh-  I'm not sure where he's from.
I think he's from the DMV though.
But  he has just like,  uh,  he's a  different artist to me.
Cause he has like this smooth type of rhythm,  and he's like a um,  R and B singer, if you will.
And  I heard his music  that one time,  and like, when I hear him on the radio station now,  it just always rings a bell to me.
And I still have um, amazing pictures of him being on stage and singing and stuff.
And we actually took pictures inside with him, too, uh, as a group.
So,  I think he just like, um, a R and B singer.
Uh,  yeah my f-  I mean I had cousins  and things of that nature, and other mentors.
Um, skateboarding-  I used to skateboard- Well I still skateboard a lot.
Like, growing up I used to skateboard a lot,  and it's the skateboarder coming from the Southeast Washington Dc, uh-  His name is uh, Darren Harper,  and he's a amateur skateboarder.
And he had like, a lot of different sponsorships and things of th- that nature,  and the way he got 'em is just- just hard working.
Like, he was just very hardworking.
Uh, when he wasn't  on his skateboard, I can imagine him just like, working out,  just very aggressively.
And the way he got sponsors is because he got like uh-  I mean coming out of Southeast,  skateboarding is not like, in our culture.
We don't see it as often.
So, he just had like, uh- he- he- he brung the element of like, a high pop  to skateboarding, and that's what got him sponsored.
He just  always jumped high.
Everything he did on the skateboard was very high,  and in that way, he was very athletic.
So um,  I met with him,  through like, one of my friends skateboarding.
That was like his cousin.
So me and my- m- me and my friend like, this was like uh-  He went to uh, middle school with me,  and I actually taught him how to skateboard  cause I was the first person in my neighborhood to uh-  Well when I went up the street  to uh, Henson Ridge, I was the first person  to skateboard.
Because they never skateboarded.
They uh, rode bikes and stuff.
So I brung skateboarding up there, and I thought wow, I had the whole-  like our whole neighborhood skating up there.
It was about six of us.
And  some played basketball and stuff like that, but they were still  skateboarding because it was cool to us.
And  it kept us out of trouble and stuff like that.
But I met Darren Harper through  one of my middle school friends that I taught how to skateboard, and he kept skateboarding with me and he progressed.
And we started skating with Darren,  and  he uh,  actually is a amateur skateboarder, and  he does  uh, videotography.
And he has his own uh-  He doesn't have his own go go band-  I don't think so, but he's a part of a go go band and he plays the congos very well.
And  my god- my um- one of my- my godbrother  that uh, lives in Waldorf,  um,  he had his uh, h-  he formed his own go go band  growing up  uh,  in  uh, my godmother's house in Waldorf.
She set up  uh-  In the garage, she allowed him to set up his own like, drum set that he  worked and saved his money for.
And his friends used to come over,  and she was very supportive of them.
And he's always just like-  In the house, he had a keyboard.
He used to play the keyboard, and then he got a drum set.
So they formed a band,  and I used to always listen to them.
And I was into it, and  just things like that-  that kept me into like,  go go and stuff.
I used to always like to dance growing up.
So,  of course like uh, from here- like,  down here a lot of people beat they feet and stuff like that, so  I picked up on that, just like uh- Yeah, that's just like a form of dance, and it's just like a lot of arm movement and  foot motion.
Yeah, it's just like a uh,  a-  a lot of uh, different-  different places have they own type of style of dance.
So that's what D- DC had.
They called it uh,  beat your feet, and they got different groups that uh,  perform and do- and do it.
So.
Yeah, uh, being down there they had like go gos.
And I mean, we was-  M- my uh, godbrother is about four years older than me, so  he used to go out with his friends and stuff.
So I met neighborhood-  in the neighborhood of Waldorf, Charles County.
Uh, my aunt lived in Banister Circle.
So I met a lot friends  uh, riding my bike and stuff like that.
So after awhile,  um,  they-  M- my friends of course listened to go go music so they went to go gos and stuff like that, so I used to go and um-  Like go out some nights, whenever my friend uh, mom used to let him go.
I used to always uh,  go out with him,  as long as I checked in.
Uh, that's something that I learned from my godmother, too.
I got in the habit of uh,  just contacting my folks,  and letting 'em know where I'm there- w- w- w-  where I am.
Cause that's um,  just  periodically throughout the day,  like um,  most of the time,  uh-  Every uh,  hour or two that pass,  I let them know- call 'em, let them know where I'm at,  checking in.
Uh,  I used to,  in Waldorf,  every hour have to come and check in  to my godmother's house,  and let her know what I'm outside doing.
That I'm al- That I'm okay,  and then I can c-  come back outside.
And sh- I make sure I get me some water or something to eat  and then go back outside.
And then as I got older, she let me uh, use my cell phone and call her  and just let her know.
So, that's something that I brung back to DC with me,  uh, with me just  riding my skateboard,  not really doing anything uh, to get myself in trouble.
I still checked in  and things like that.
Uh,  it was a number of times .
Like just uh,  in my neighborhood, they had beef  with the neighborhood as m-  uh,  probably like exactly  two minutes away  or like, a block or two away from us.
So,  of course that neighborhood and my neighborhood used to always fight,  and just like,  get into altercations  which led to like  one of the well known um,  neighborhood males to uh, get shot and killed.
So like,  just like,  I fear for my life- Well, just- just coming down  the- the hill at night  on my skateboard  uh, after coming from maybe  uh, one of the local  neighborhood uh, skateboard spots that we used to um, skate.
Or coming from downtown  or Freedom Plaza  or  Shaw Skate Park  uh downtown.
After coming down on my skateboard, and of course my skateboard makes a loud noise, uh, it being  night time or at night.
I used to always just be  kind of just like,  paranoid,  looking behind me  and watching out just for people and cars and things like that because  I w-  I would never-  I- I never knew if something would just happen to me just coming down the hill  because I just know that like, it's- it's crazy people out there just in my neighborhood.
And  when it's the other neighborhood, it's trying to attack us,  I mean they don't care.
If they see somebody on a skateboard, they probably think it's funny to uh, shoot at 'em  or knock 'em off their skateboard,  things like that.
And especially if you um,  beefing with the neighborhood, you already assume that that person on the skateboard  is from that neighborhood.
So,  I fear for my life in that-  in that type of way,  and would like,  uh- I know me and my friends, we always had each other's backs.
So if anything would happen,  we would just always alert each other  walking around just always watch- watch my back.
I didn't get into  too many fist fights growing up,  uh, just because it's like, when I see people behind me,  or walking behind me, I used to always cross the street.
Uh, first things I did when I bend the corner and they couldn't see me  anymore is just like, run,  just get um,  a block or two ahead.
Just so that I wouldn't be in their area anymore,  and just things like that.
Uh,  other than that,  uh,  I don't think anything like  bad  really went to my- went through my mind.
I was always positive um,  always humble  growing up.
I didn't think I had to like,  no crazy thing like carry a gun around on me  or anything to protect myself.
I didn't think about it  that way,  but it's a lot of uh, times I think back, and I could have uh, like, I could have ha- um,  been dead  just being wrong place wrong time.
I see it on the news all the time, just someone being-  just someone being like just,  somewhere where I walk past every day, and  there they are, shot and killed.
Or just situations that happen  for nonsense, like over nonsense,  that could have just easily happened to me,  and I think about it.
But I start- I- I- I just try to  stay focused and stay humble.
Uh, college.
I will be attending um,  Johnson C Smith  um,  within like, the next two weeks.
And  I want to major in  Business Management,  and get like a minor in Photography.
But,  most likely, I'm'a just get there and be undecided because I'm not  very sure.
It's not um,  anything like- it- it- it's nothing-  none of my ideas are uh,  stone at this point.
I'm still thinking about it.
So  um,  I've been thinking about- as far as photography, I want to be a self taught photographer.
I don't really want to  waste any money  on class  or learning it in school  when I can be um,  just gaining some other skills  while I'm in um, college.
I want to be like, a self taught photographer,  and then, other than that, I want to just uh,  maybe do Business Management or Entrepreneurship  or something like that.
But, I think when I get there, I'm'a just  have to  figure things out  as they come  up there.
Yes, I'll be the first one in my family to attend um,  college.
My um,  my grandfather went to college um,  but didn't stay.
So I think he went there for like- He was in college  for like um,  maybe like a trade school,  or  a community college  for like a month  before he stopped going.
And he uh,  got into the Service.
Other than that, uh, none of my- especially not none of my um,  immediate family members, they haven't-  n- none have um,  went to the um, next level and like, furthered their education from um, high school.
Uh,  my favorite movie  I would say,  is  Will Smith, the uh, Pursuit of Happiness.
I just like that.
It's just like,  struggles and Will Smith in that movie went through to like trials and  contribulations  with just like  getting his-  his son to daycare every morning.
And over top of that, he had a thousand more things to do  where it was uh,  getting to work on time in the morning,  um,  getting what he had at the time, uh, which was like a  um-  I'm not sure if it was a computer  or something that bass-  uh, getting that to work every morning,  and getting his son dressed.
And just all these  different elements  just like,  came together within-  within like,  four house, five hours.
And he had to blend all these things to make the- m- make sure that everything runs smoothly-  smoothly um, throughout every day, in order to make it.
So like,  that inspired me,  and just like just,  seeing this movie and watching this movie  uh,  you see the will power that uh, Will Smith had.
And like just,  taking his son through a orphanage.
And at the same time,  studying so he can get  a promotion at work.
Uh,  just like sitting in the hallway  or bathroom,  trying to uh, read a book  when he didn't really have  uh,  the source of light,  just things like that.
Uh,  I just like the drive that he had in that movie.
And people do this on a regular basis.
I mean,  life is not like silver spoon for everybody,  and people go through struggles,  but that what makes people  make it  in life, like it-  without these struggles- Yes.
I think I have that same drive,  and  sometimes I um-  Well my generation has ran off with just like,  cell phone and electronics nowadays so it's-  it's kind of easily for m- it's- it's easier for me to get distracted,  but I just got to learn to just stay focused.
But, as long as I'm focused, yeah I have that same drive.
Uh,  that piece of advice  would be um,  hard times doesn't last.
Um,  but like,  well tough times don't last but- but tough people do.
In the sense that like um-  If you going through school, I mean try your best  for  the certain amount of hours you're in school  or the certain amount of years your in school  because after awhile you're gonna look up and you're not in school anymore.
But people are like-  I mean people complain about our school systems on this side,  and  what they go through on this side, but it's a lot of people out there that's willing to help and support us.
Um,  and they just don't know it because  they don't look up at the bright side  or they just don't open they mouths.
And  something that's said often but is very true is that uh, closed mouth don't get fed.
And I learned that the hard way, with just being quiet.
And  not talking most of the time because I got a attitude,  but  that really  um, affects  the opportunities y- t-  the opportunities that you're gonna get  in life.
And I got a lot of opportunities  just by- just being positive  and  going into school  and just being passionate about what I did, and just doing a lot of different things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Uh, today I actually um,  had a tour, my first time being in the White House,  inside the White House.
Um,  it was my first time.
It was amazing.
Uh, day before yesterday  I was in the um,  Eisenhower Building  which is like the west wing of the White House.
Um,  I never been in there.
It was actually for um-  We was discussing the initiative um,  that Obama curated uh,  My Brother's Keeper.
And we had a round house discussion  on  just like,  different um,  My Brother's Keeper, um, communities  and  how they're um,  just  installing  um,  STEM  and  the  mentorship that  kids and young people like me will have  growing up.
So, I think it's a- it- it-  it's a real big part  of  being from Southeast  and learning who you are and learning what you come from.
I mean, I think it's-  it's kind of crazy not to take advantage of  seeing things like the White House when you live,  I mean,  literally a train ride away from it  cause in a sense it open your mind up.
And a lot of people who struggle  just on, just like,  the other side of the bridge.
And when people s-  think of Washington DC, they always think of  uh, the president house  and  the memorials and the capitol,  and if you don't learn about  that type of stuff,  then how can you  make it out of your environment?
Because it's possibilities,  but I think um,  before actually  today  and yesterday, I never been  to um-  to the White House or the Eisenhower um,  Building.
And  it was like, kind of life changing for me.
It uh,  opened my eyes to a lot of things that were going on.
Uh, I'm not really into politics,  but it's nothing wrong with being into politics, and it's a possibility  for everyone to be into- to pol- uh, to politics,  ending up broadening your horizon if you actually pick up the newspaper,  and over time  of just me reading newspaper, I picked up on different type of things.
So,  I mean, it's- it's good.
I know a lot of family members-  I did a lot of stuff that my family members  um,  can't say that they did.
So,  that's pretty crazy to me.
But  I think I- I had a role, and I had a expectation of teaching my family  about things like that or my um, younger cousins and  nephews and nieces, things like that,  so that they can achieve more than me  when they grow up.
Yes.
Uh,  in high school, I used to always go to Hong Kong, and that's the carry out maybe like a block or two down from my high school.
And that's where everybody eats.
Uh,  I mean, if you go to-  if you go to RD-SCHOOL-2,  RD-SCHOOL-7 High School and you participate in um,  after school  um, activities,  most likely you  have had uh, Hong Kong.
And so chicken rings and maybe like fried rice  and mumbo sauce.
Mumbo sauce is like,  um-  I think it's  like a mixture  of like  barbecue sauce  and hot sauce  along with uh,  maybe-  maybe some di- it- it- it's a mixture of sauces,  but it doesn't taste like uh,  just ketchup or just hot sauce.
And it's not j- too hot.
And it's not like too tangy either.
So it's like-  I mean it's a perfect mixture of sauce,  like different sauces to me in my opinion,  and it goes great on chicken.
So.
My favorite place to hang out in DC?
It has to be  um, Freedom Plaza.
Freedom Plaza because I like- I- I- I love to skateboard,  and the skate scene down there is crazy.
I mean, even though we not supposed to skate um,  not supposed to skateboard  o- on government property,  but it's a lot of marble ledges  and  just things and names,  important names  and things that happened through history and carvings and neat stones.
But  it's a smooth surface for uh, skateboarders  to  learn tricks  and just ride around  um,  park police  every so often chase you.
And if you get caught, you can get fined, or maybe even have your skateboard take- taken away,  but  it's a great way to meet new friends,  and if you're a photographer, get pictures,  and  it's always cool.
It's like there's always a um,  just a good  uh,  a good mood.
Every- every- everyone down at Freedom Plaza is um,  is in a good mood most of the times.
It's a good vibe.
And  good place to chill  as long as  you find some shade, and  the CVS across the street where you can get something to drink, cause if not you gonna be hot.