Been living in DC about fifteen years now.
Well actually I was born and raised in DC.
You know, um,  grew up over there on Fifty Fifth Ave,  Southeast.
Um,  and pretty much-  pretty much it, buddy.
I went to, um,  RD-SCHOOL-4  for what, high school.
And, um- Yeah.
Well it was pretty  rough up in there, you know.
We made it through though, graduated.
Oh I have a very big family, you know.
Uh,  have a grandmother  you know, uh,  total of  six  aunts and uncles, all grew up in DC,  which moved  to Upper Marlboro later in the years.
But yeah,  That's about it.
I got two  sisters.
Uh, well one sister grew up in Maryland,  the other grew up in DC, she lives in DC right now actually.
In Northwest.
Fourth Street West.
Yeah it's a d- it's a total difference you know, you none-  DC people are more,  you know, laid back but,  you know, more  quick to catch an attitude about something or just more righteous people.
Like Prince George's County is  more  like, you know, spoiled.
I would say.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Like- Like yeah, if you was from Baltimore, you now  a person would say  like, 'dog'.
Like you say, what's up, dog?
Yeah, they supposevly- supposebly saying dog.
But they say dog .
And we say in DC, we be like, what's up cuz?
or what's up dog?
Baltimore they be like, what's up dog?
Or they'll say, uh,  two.
Like they'll say it  they have a different slang what they say.
Like whenever we count to two, it be, one, two.
They'll say, one, two.
Like you don't know what the hell they talking about but  you know that's just the lingo and how it goes in  DC and Baltimore.
Um, sh-     Well,     bruh is one of 'em,  which is brother.
Or     or another-   or you're a relative or something like that.
Which is meant by you'll say like, what's up, bruh?
Or something like that but we say, what's up, cuz?
It's just saying  as far as that goes, it's saying, what's up?
How you doing?
How you been doing today?
Or we'll say, you're lunching.
Lunching means basically you're wiling out.
And lunchings- ca- can be used as a person,  place,  or thing.
You could be like, that's lunching.
Or you could be like, you know, he's lunching.
Or  something like that.
Or you could say, you joning.
Now a lot of people don't say that you joning like in Baltimore they'll say, uh-    What they say in Baltimore?
I keep forgetting.
Or- or in New York they'll say, hey man, you going on me or something like that?
Or-   It just funny you know, joning is a  thing in DC with what we do, it's fun,  it's funny.
You know it really don't take no personal feeling but sometimes people do get personal.
But uh, it's another- something else that's slang  that I would say, uh, Oh fleek?
Fleek that's for the new youngins man, on fleek- I would s- for me, for my age and what I done picked up off it,  like fleek is something like that looks good,  or you're looking nice today or you have on something new.
Which is another word, for DC, we'll say fresh.
You know what I'm saying, when we say, fresh as a motherfucker, that means we got on something new.
I shape up look nice, or you know what I'm saying, a car look- we got a fresh ass car.
Or some fresh ass d-  diamonds or something that looks good.
We'll just say,  you looking fresh than a motherfucker today, or, that car is fresh as shit, today.
But, um,  we'll say stuff like bama,  like, you a straight up bama.
And bama- definition is a bama is a- you know what I'm saying, you got on some off brand shoes,  which is namely not name brand.
Or you'll have some out of style jeans or some out of style shirt or something.
You know it's- it basically making fun of people or just basically joning but you a bama, but some people  do it,  like dress  as a bama  and know they a bama but they'll stick with it but,  you know,  we jone on 'em.
That's a- that's another way of joning, another form of joning.
Back in the day-  back in the day we'll say, um,   Nah I got this little cough.
No.
Little cold or something like that man it's been  congestion in my chest.
Some slang?
From back in the day man, let's see, much ain't changed from back in the day or like we'll still use that slang today.
Like we'll say, that's tight.
Like when you say, that's tight,  the definition of tight is  same thing as almost fresh.
You got on something clean, or something f-  new.
Or, you know what I'm saying,  or something that you do very well, we'll be like, nigga I'm tight.
I'm tight at that.
Or you'll say you know, I'm tight at football or something that you do very well we'll say, I'm tight.
Or, uh,  what else?
I mean it ain't much changed since back in the day.
Like we still use the words from today, for real for real.
Thirty-six.
Neighborhood I grew up in was tight as a motherfu-   Neighborhood I grew up in was tight, man, it was all family around there no- no .
You know we had a-  couple people had  their differences  toward each other.
But you know they seen through it.
But it was still family oriented.
That's why I think a lot of other neighborhoods hated.
Because how close we were and how close we are still to the day.
Some people been knowing each other over thirty years.
Everyone from around my way.
It was like, um-   In DC-  I done lived in DC probably about,  um,  since I was born  to like  twenty five,  thirty years old.
Yeah it was pretty nice, man, DC is all love, man.
Especially now with the, um,  legalization of marijuana.
Yeah.
That came about  I would say probably about a year,  probably about two years.
Three, maybe.
But probably at the- I say at the least  it's two years ago.
I mean, you can,  but as far as the law goes, they rather you smoking on your property, it just like  alcohol.
You know what I'm saying, whatever you could do with alcohol you could do with marijuana.
Basic- They want you to,  you know what I'm saying,  drinking on your property, you know, as long as you're on your property you're fine and  you actually can do it in a couple clubs, I won't say much but you can.
Because it's legal.
And, um,  yeah DC is just changing for the better, man.
But,  you know, some people think it's    trying to get all the black folks out I just think it's just trying to  be a- the richer environment.
For real.
No.
Building up the slums.
Uh-huh.
I mean  you know, you- you gonna have your trickery,   in the government as far as that goes.
You know,  they could be just forcing niggas out, you know what I'm saying.
As far as Section 8 people, you know what I'm saying.
But that's how it's always gonna be.
Until  everybody's willing to be together and stand up  to fight for the cause.
Until then it's gonna be  whatever they want,  how they want,  and when they want.
Like as- as far as you know letting the government just do anything  that they wanna do  basically.
Cause nobody's really there to  fight for us or,  you know, actually see what really goes down behind closed doors.
I mean, yeah we have people on television telling us  one thing but they could just be being a puppet for the next man.
But we really wouldn't know until we  able to fight for the cause  and get what we want right inf- in-  in front of us, so it'll be shown instead of going off what everybody else is saying  and it's going the other way but the whole plan was to go the other way the whole time.
But you'll never be able to know that  until you open your eyes.
No.
Shit I didn't  grow up with my mother and father.
Through my grandmother.
My grandmother raised me She worked for the government.
Forget what part- which department though.
She worked with them for years.
I mean it was cool, I mean it was tough  because of how big our family was.
We probably couldn't get everything we wanted to get but  it made me to be  the person who I am today,  you know what I'm saying.
To see who your friends really are and who the ones who really ain't.
The ones who will look to put you down  and the ones who was there.
But,  you know you live through all that  and it just make you a better dude for real, man.
Yeah,  I mean the people I grew up going to high school with the same people  that I-  I w- grew up with, you know, it ain't no difference.
It's still the same people from, um,  around where I grew up at.
I have two sisters and one  half brother.
But  we was taught n- there is no such thing as a half.
Either your-  either your brother or your sister whatever.
Yeah.
Who, my brother?
Oh yeah I have a very tight relationship with my brothers and sisters.
Heck yeah, uh, I- it's very well as my aunts and uncles.
Cause my aunts and uncles are basically like my brothers and sisters.
Cause we was all raised in the same household.
So  it's nothing but love, I've always- I'm a family oriented man.
You know.
I looks out for the fam.
Never disrespect.
So.
Nah, me and my sister we used to fight when we was younger but you know-  you know, that's what you- that's what you do, that's what you do, just over dumb shit.
Oh shoot.
Oh I'm sorry.
Yeah, when me and my sister was young we used to fight.
We used to fight a-  it wasn't all the time type thing, but when we did, we used to fight,  and she used to win too cause she was bigger.
I had to tap out of some shit.
And that shit be funny as fuck now that I be thinking about it cause when I got to a certain age, you know what I'm saying, I reached my-  she wasn't nowhere.
Mm-hm as I got bigger and stronger you know what I'm saying I started whooping her little ass.
I mean not physically punching her though you know what I'm saying.
It just- yeah, just, shut the fuck up I'm stronger than you.
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah, but then after that, you know,  we just start to realize, you know, we all we got.
So we ain't- we ain't- after  a certain age we ain't never fight.
We'll probably argue or say something,  like some  quick words  but  it really wouldn't mean nothing.
Mm.
Probably just when we went to the park and cooked out but we did that rarely, like we ain't really do too much family shit.
You know, we was already in the house, the family shit was going on every day.
You know what I'm saying, the big Sunday dinner was just regular dinner for us, every day.
You know what I'm saying.
So it w- we ain't really go out to much.
We took trips here and there.
I was just in North Carolina to see my uh, step-grandfather.
Well, you know,  his parents  couple time.
But as I got older I didn't wanna go down there either.
Mumbo sauce?
What is mumbo sauce?
Shit, your guess as good as mine, I don't know what that is.
But it's a, uh, it's a specialty sauce that these carry outs have around here, it's a Chinese owned and they make  fried chicken wings.
And they put this sauce on there called mumbo sauce.
Now what's in it or what's mixed in it, your guess as good as mine when it comes to mumbo sauce, but some places have some bomb mumbo sauce.
And some places don't.
Gotta.
On the side.
I put mine on the side a lot of people like theirs all over the fries and the chicken.
I be like, nah you won't see it.
I put mine to the side,  break my chicken off, dip it in there, you know what I'm saying, so just in case the next bite I might not want no mumbo sauce on my chicken.
But it is bomb.
And the other side a little signature sauce.
But,  a lot of places got they little signature stuff.
And ours is mumbo sauce.
Let me see.
Uh, my g-  guess would probably be like barbecue sauce,  and hot sauce mixed.
My guess would be.
It's probably  barbecue sauce, hot sauce, just different- like a different barbecue sauce.
And a different hot sauce.
Mixed together.
Or probably it's a- there's some water.
Mix that shit together like that.
And you probably get mumbo sauce.
But I really couldn't tell you though cause I tried the shit and that shit wasn't mumbo sauce.
Mm-mm.
No.
What about go go?
Go go,  it was actually made  a long time ago.
About these guys just trying to make some money  regular on the corner with some  pots, pans, and buckets.
They just did their little beats,  start rhyming it together.
And next thing you know that's why- that's what Junk Yard came from cause all their equipment came from  like trashes  or old  garbage stuff or the junk yard.
You know they'd beat on buckets, pots, or whatever they had  and that's where the name Junk Yard Band came from.
S- and  that's one of the famous  go go bands down here in Washington  DC.
And what they did was they had been on a corner, cranking their little pots and pans and you know people throw coins and stuff like that.
And all of a sudden they start to do these little shows, so they- eventually they got the drums and the congas.
Which also we call congos, but they- they originally known as congas.
Um,  you know the piano board, and the cow bell and  you have the-  the rolla tom,  and  the mics,  and amps, and when you put all that stuff together,  you have the go go.
Then when you go to a go go  like, some people don't understand.
Like  You can go to like a rap hip-hop jont and you gotta wait for people to battle,  for you to be like, oh they said my neighborhood, or oh, this and that.
And when you go to a go go, dog, back in the day,  you was going there to rep your neighborhood where you grew up from, we didn't have these different gangs or all that shit, it was where you grew up from.
So it's basically all the people you knew from the time you was young to all you was old enough to go to a go go.
You went and repped your neighborhood.
It wasn't no type gang thing or anything like that  it was just the fact that where you grew up at  was what's the name of your crew.
So, you know, when you go in the go gos you went to rep your crew but don't get it twisted.
It was dimes and freaks and whatever else you wanted up in there.
But you also represented your neighborhood.
And that's probably one of the- as far as a heavy metal or some rock band, that's probably one of the hardest crowds  you would go through.
But nowadays it's a little softer.
You know what I'm saying you coulda hit the Chuck Brown  or the Maiesha and the Hiphuggers it was for the older crowd that's when you did your little one-two step, or something like that.
You got a couple of little the older crowd with like the women,  but if you wanted the little  toonchies was what we call little,  you know,  fast girls who like to have sex real fast is why they call fast girls, but I call them toonchie.
It was at the  like  Junk or Backyard  or Northeast Groovers.
And they crank.
All day.
Yeah, each- each band has their significant style.
I mean, but  they're all played on the same instrument, of course every band's gonna have a different style.
Like Chuck Brown'd be like more slow pace.
Or  you know you had more slow pace for the older crowd cause they wasn't with all that.
But, you know,  Junk, Back, and Northeast Groovers you know they could go slow or they'll go fast  for a couple dances or something like that for back in the day.
But I'll tell you one thing.
We don't percolate, that's what we won't do  down in DC we don't percolate.
Mm.
You know what that is.
You ain't gotta aks me.
I mean it's a lot of people know what percolating is, I don't know what they call it in other states.
I wouldn't know what they would call it but ev- Yeah.
They know what it is.
Um,  I mean it was all your choice but yeah it was a lot of people in the crowd and-  Whether it be a lot of people standing to the crowd it was packed house every night,  I'll tell you that.
It was probably the same thing for like a  rap session or some shit like that but, I ain't,  you know,  go go wasn't is  what it is.
It wouldn't be what it is  today  if it wasn't what it was back in the day.
Yeah.
It was more like a sacrificial type thing.
They wasn't really radio oriented.
Radio stations weren't playing go go like that.
It was one band that got on though, who was it?
Uh, EU?
Who was that band, EU?
And that was aight.
Used to crank too though.
Remember, Working the ?