July seventh, nineteen eighty.
One sixteen PM.
Mm-hm.
I was third from the left at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Southeast DC.
Washington DC.
Yup.
Deanwood.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Um, ten years in Baltimore, Maryland,  um,  and a six month span in Richmond, Virginia.
Uh, started at RD-SCHOOL-5 University during that six month span.
Didn't quite pan out,  came back home and got my uh, two year from RD-SCHOOL-3 Community College.
Have not  finished beyond there.
It's a goal.
So I'm currently the program director at the RD-WORK-7  RD-WORK-10.
Father was born in Cordele, Georgia.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Cordele, Georgia.
Winston Salem, North Carolina.
Yup.
Just starting to get to know my father's side of the family, too.
I just- Uh, he's a janitor for DC public schools.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, most people don't-  because he is not as spoken of as th- my mother, the queen, um-  I remember when I went away to school,  and I had a friend of mine's, oh, I guess your mom's gonna have to get a boyfriend now.
Hey, no my dad lives at home.
So he's very c- Yeah.
Married, uh,  thir- um- uh- I'm thirty five-  Thirty one years.
Thirty one years.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He is um-  So there's two sides of it.
He's very quiet, very quiet reserved person.
No.
Um, but then we have had-  Our, you know, relationship has had its  journey, and because of that, and I don't always speak of  my father.
So,  we at a  decent place  now,  but  I don't speak of him as much because he just wasn't as much of a part.
Nah.
Yup.
She was a- uh, executive assistant for DC public schools for thirty- Oh yeah.
DCPS.
Yup.
Thirty seven years.
She worked all over the place, superintendent's office, the board of education's office, local schools.
Did a little bit of everything.
Mm-hm.
They met uh, through my  uh, mother's sister.
And my father  was friends with a mutual friend,  and when they moved here to DC-  Uh, my mom moved to DC when she was six or seven,  and uh, they  met through some mutual friends, went out on a date, and the rest was history.
Here I am.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, they- they moved there from Winston Salem.
Like I said, she was about six or seven,  um, just to pursue new opportunities, new things,  and landed in DC.
And-  and my mom is one of  five.
One of five,  and uh, they just, you know, wanted to seek some new opportunities  and came to DC.
Um, same deal.
Um, my dad is one of sixteen.
Yeah.
And um, just in search of some new opportunities, to do some new things.
And he ended up coming up with a friend of his  and was- Yeah yeah yeah.
So he was- Yeah, he was a little bit-  Let's see.
When they-  Twenties  when they met.
Yeah, met- mid to late twenties when they met.
And um-  Yeah cause they were all family- All my other  family on his side is basically still down south.
He's a- one of three who came up north  in Cordele.
Cordele, Raleigh,  um,  couple other places down around about  those parts.
Yeah, that's basically what's happening.
We had our first family reunion for that side of that family last July.
Uh, first time I had seen  them-  I've only been down South once before and I was  four.
Three or four.
Had- And it was the only time I met my paternal grandfather  uh, it was during that time.
He died not too long after I- we- that visit  uh, when I was three.
Uh, but hadn't seen any of that part of the family with the exception of  one uncle and his wife who moved to New Jersey,  and one uncle and his wife who had moved to Ohio.
Other than that, hadn't seen any of these folks in-  from-  almost thirty years  until last July,  uh, which was an interesting experience.
Uh, in Raleigh.
Um, and then we're planning for the next one which is this- No, next summer,  which will be here in the DC area.
So now I get to help host.
I'm on the- I'm on the committee.
I get trapped in-  Mm-hm.
But it's interesting.
Yeah, I mean it's interesting just like, reconnecting with family.
And I think especially- Yeah.
Especially because my relationship with my father is what it is,  and has not always been the best, reconnecting with that part of the family was  weird at first.
Um, but refreshing.
And I remember sitting- We had the little banquet that night, and  they actually went through the lineage.
And to be in a room and-  and to be- feel connected,  was, you know, the- All the other stuff from me and my father went out the window  because I realized the connect-  the connection that I had with,  you know,  eight  generations of people.
And they're tracing and going back and looking and seeing that this and this and this and this.
So,  it was interesting.
Humbling, I'll say.
I am an only child by birth.
Only child by birth- And that was- I had a weird  upbringing in the sense that  most of my life, school, church, everything else, was inside the city,  but we always lived right outside of DC in   Chillum, Maryland, which is maybe like- it was, you know, right across- right across the Eastern Avenue,  right across that line.
Um,  and so I was- it was a weird thing.
The elementary school I went to-  Um, if DCPS ever found this out, they would probably send me a really big tuition bill,  Um, I wasn't supposed to go to cause I wasn't a DC resident.
Uh, but I went.
RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary on Division Avenue.
Um,  in Northeast and Deanwood.
Um-  Had this humble history.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
So it's kind of like, in the middle of the hill.
Um,  because my mother worked at -WORK-1 Elementary School, which is around the corner,  she had a relationship,  um- she actually went to the principal at RD-SCHOOL-2  and just flat out asked,  can my son come?
RD-SCHOOL-2 was a historic school,  great leadership, RD-NAME-5,  the greatest principal that ever walked the face of the Earth,  um- Just  he was  what you think of when you think like, old school teacher and administrator.
Um, he was a- a-  he's like a grandfather type.
He didn't play any games, um, but he- Like RD-NAME-2.
He was a RD-NAME-2 for elementary school kids.
It was a little toned down.
It was a little- But he was a little toned down, so it wasn't, you know, so like, uh, but there was-  But it was good.
I mean,  RD-SCHOOL-2 was the first school to do all day pre kin- all day kindergarten  in DC public schools.
It was the first school to do  a mandatory uniform policy  um, in the city schools.
Um, a lot of firsts.
And then- some issues with, you know-  I think at that time,  a uniform-  uniform policies  were different than where I kind of look at them now,  but there was a sense of unity and a sense of pride that Mr.
RD-NAME-2 taught.
I mean, from the kindergarten  through sixth grade,  there was pride about  tuck your shirt in.
Where's your tie?
Iron your blouse.
And he corralled the community around that.
There was a community around Deanwood that wrapped its r- arms around RD-SCHOOL-2,  and um,  he led them.
And he was- he was the the shepherd of a big flock.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So my connection to RD-SCHOOL-2 still stays extremely strong.
Um,    let's see.
My fifth grade year, he retired  as principal from- Well he left to take a job with the central office as a area superintendent  cause he was the bomb.
And so, I think-  I can't remember how many years later, but he did eventually pass.
And so there was a reunion of sorts where ever- everyone came back together.
His protege,  uh, was a nam- a lady by the name of RD-NAME-5,  and she became principal my sixth grade year.
She is- she was the female RD-NAME-5.
Uh, to this day, I can pick up my phone and call  uh, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 and  talk for hours and ask  um-  She-  RD-SCHOOL-2- RD-SCHOOL-2 was a family, and I was there for eight years cause I started pre K all the way through sixth grade.
And so  I spent a lot of time with both-  both of them.
And so when he left, and she stepped in, there was a natural  transition.
So much so, that when I went  to RD-SCHOOL-5 University after graduating high school  and was not prepared to go away to school, was not prepared for college life, and told my mom,  excuse my language, you have to come get me the hell out of here,  I came back home.
RD-SCHOOL-2 was the first place that I went.
And Mrs.
RD-NAME-2, who was still the principal said,  come on, we gonna give you a job, and we gonna help you sort it out.
First time I worked-  had a- had a- other than like a summer job, had a working job,  and I was the office clerk  at RD-SCHOOL-2.
But it was there  that I learned  that I had this thing in me to work with kids  because in the office,  teachers would send  the bad children.
And so out of that,  was born the Conflict Resolution and Peer Mediation Program  at RD-SCHOOL-2  and Peace Day and the Peace March and the Peace Rally  in our community.
And-   But I mean, it goes back- even when I- when we graduated my sixth grade year, I got prin- the principal's award from Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 and when she made her remarks- and I'll never forget this- she said I was the only student who- who had ever written her a memo.
Sixth grade, wrote her a memo cause we wanted to do a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles play  at school.
And I wrote out the schedule, and this is what we wanna do.
Do we have your approval?
And so it was the only child that had ever written her a memo.
Um,  so all- it- there was a-  I understood then  what community looked like  and what a school  should look like.
A  school that was a hub in the community.
Oddly enough,  right across from the school was Tabernacle Baptist Church,  which is where  before and after care, vacation bible school, summer camp-  I'm forgetting something else.
All- all of that  happened at the same time, so I started pre school,  at Tabernacle's Child Development Center at three.
And so it was a natural- They had a great partnership with RD-SCHOOL-2, so you had  these two entities in this community,  church and school,  that was this beautiful picture,  and  you know, all of that stayed with me today and what community should look like, so.
And I still have-  Now, RD-SCHOOl-2 has changed, broke my heart.
When I went back,  RD-SCHOOL-2 was the la- one of the last open space schools  in DC to be converted  to rooms.
Um,  I was fine with the open space school.
We learned great.
Apparently,  children today don't do so well and children don't do so well  in um- It's- Yeah, different- different strokes, different folks, I guess.
But um,  now they have  um,  closed it in.
There's new leadership,  but when I walked  into- and I had gone back a couple times.
I went- so,  I went back to work there.
Uh, I worked there for two years,  and then I went back to s- went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Community College full time.
But when I uh,   needed some money, she said- Mrs.
RD-SCHOOL-2 said, come on back.
You can work and go to school.
So I worked there total for four years,  and you know, enjoyed it,  great starting pl- point for me.
Um,  but when I went back,  maybe within the last  three or four years,  it's a different place.
And I knew it was different from the moment I walked on the- the grounds.
When you come up Division Avenue, there's- there's- uh- You're coming up Division from Eastern,  and when you get to the apex of the hill, the school is like, right there as you're coming down.
And so there's this big open area walkway, and these big steps that walk down.
When you can walk on a property,  and feel  different,  like, so this not my school.
And as I walked- People are different.
The people are different.
And there- there are a couple of teachers who are there that I worked with.
There's maybe one or two that were there as- that who taught me,  but it's a different  mindset from the people within the building  and then the people that are coming into the building.
And- There's no pride.
Yeah.
The um-  the days of Mr.
RD-NAME-2 and Miss RD-NAME-2, I mean everybody  took pride  in RD-SCHOOL-2.
I mean, awards all over the place.
Visits all over the place.
When you walked in, there was a sense that these children knew.
And you were-  you were expected.
It- it was RD-NAME-2 ish.
In kindergarten, you were expected  to  carry yourself a certain way,  and you know, without-  without reminding you to-  reminding you that you were a black  youth,  Mr.
RD-NAME-2 gave you the type of pride that said to you as a black youth, pick your head up.
As a black youth you know, speak this way, carry yourself this way, without ever  saying, hey, you black boy.
He just  exuded what  it looked like.
Uh, we had character and values assemblies where we talked about truth and honesty.
Um,  third grade, my teacher looked at me and said, you're gonna do the I Have A Dream speech  for MLK.
Okay,  cool.
Um,  I mean there were moments like that, that gave you the type of confidence.
You know, I stepped it on the little stool.
She said, when you stand up there, you wait for everybody to be quiet.
And my mother will tell you just- I stood there almost a minute.
Third grade, stood there with my little suit on.
Almost a minute.
Until everybody stopped talking.
Cause that's what Miss RD-NAME-2, my third grade teacher said.
Don't open your mouth  until everybody stops talking.
Almost a minute.
I say to you today- and somebody has a recording, we can't find out who it is.
Somebody has a recording  of that.
But the- the sense of pride and awareness  that that gave me has stayed with me to this day.
These people trug me all across the city to the point-  I said, I love Doctor King, but I don't want to have this dream anymore.
I don't want to say this speech no more.
This man getting ready to come out his grave and tell me to be quiet and s- read somebody else's words.
But it built something in me  um,  that I don't-  we don't- it's not there.
That  energy is not there in that school anymore.
And I walked around and- and you just didn't feel it.
Mm-mm.
Um, so I- I actually went legit and went to Prince George's County schools.
Um,  I auditioned for- No.
No more rogue- no more- I'm telling you, DCPS is gonna track me down and send me like a eighty thousand dollar tuition bill uh, for eight years of school there.
Um,  but I went to-  I auditioned for RD-SCHOOL-4.
It was a magnet school,  and- cause I was, you know, in my art world and been introduced to all these things at RD-SCHOOL-2,  and I wanted to do theater and  all of that.
And RD-SCHOOL-4 said, yeah, your audition-  Your Raisin in the Sun monologue was cute.
But we good.
We don't want you to come to our school.
I said, okay.
Um- I did uh,  mama I want-  I- It's okay.
I want her to have some pearls.
I- it's- what's wrong with my wife can't have pearls.
So, did it and poured my little heart out,  didn't get into RD-SCHOOL-2.
I ended up going to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um,  right in like, Largo, in that area.
And um, I guess-  Damn- I guess I was a little rogue there too  cause it  wasn't my neighborhood school so we used my cousin's address.
Hope I ain't get nobody in trouble by saying this, but anyway,  went there, and still had- but it was the place I was supposed to be.
Be.
Um,  It was- I had a more authentic experience,  and I j- I jokingly talk about RD-SCHOOL-2 p- you know, RD-SCHOOL-2 taught you  the theater where you  perform with your hands.
Look the sun  is in the sky.
It shines on the flower.
And all that, you know.
I had a different experience at- at RD-SCHOOL-3.
I grew as a leader,  and again a principal.
I had a- I ha- there was a culture in that school  that was different,  that was nurturing.
Uh, RD-NAME-6 was my seventh grade principal.
RD-NAME-5.
Doctor RD-NAME-5 was my eighth grade principal.
She didn't take no stuff.
Uh, and at a point where I was starting to, I guess, feel myself  a little bit, she helped get that  in line.
Um,  but again, nurtured opportunity for me to lead, to speak,  et cetera, to do these things that I try to help give kids now, that I love  you know, doing so much with 'em now.
Um,  and then because of the art experience there, I was ready to go to RD-SCHOOL-2 gr- uh,  interview for RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
Got into the both-  the theater and the TV production apart- departments.
Yup.
Stuck with theater,  um, loved it.
Um,  but got to my junior year  and realized that my life was not gonna be an artist- I wasn't gonna be- live a life as an artist.
And I loved everything that- from that point,  dance, vocal music,  theater, everything that it had taught me.
Discipline,  expression,  pride,  all of that was great, but I realize  it was not gonna be my life.
I'm not going to Broadway.
I'm not- This is not what I'm gonna do.
Uh, I ain't about that life.
But this was also around the time where I was wrestling with my call to ministry  and having all these spiritual moments and you know, from the Bible that fell off my shelf and the fell open to Jeremiah chapter one, and I know the path that I have for you,  thoughts to prosper you, and I'm like, I don't know what that means.
And had grown up in church, and but still just wrestling with all of that, so now the  path was turning from art to,  alright, let's go save the world.
Let's go, you know- we gonna go preach the word.
So much so that in my eleventh grade year, I completely lost my mind and thought that I was gonna save the world  with a one point oh GPA.
Yeah, junior year was my rough year.
I went from a  two two  to a one three  to a one point oh.
And the fear of God through my five foot mother,   said, let it drop again.
And at the time was trying to start  RD-SCHOOL-2's first Christian Club.
We gonna start the Christian Club!
And my mother- And again, another-  I've been surrounded my great women,  present company included.
Um, Doctor  RD-NAME-5  was my  tenth through twelfth grade principal at RD-SCHOOL-2.
And I remember the day sitting in her office in-  with my mother.
What- what Christian Club you starting,  with that.
That's not gonna work.
And so-  No, he wasn't.
Mm-mm.
I think he was sitting over in the corner just you know sipping his tea or- or saying no, or- Mm- With them wafers.
He was breaking bread for me, and he was getting that cup together cause I needed something.
Um, and I think everybody has that moment  but  that just was where mine was, and I was just gung ho.
I was making, and I still have them.
I have to  bring you one.
These things called spiritual vitamin.
I mean I was serious.
I was gonna be- It was me  and my little purple Bible that fell off the shelf and the Lord and we was gonna go save  RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
Um, and every night- my mama bought me a- this a old Apple,  old, like old- the little box Apple computer  that had the rainbow apple on it.
Funny,  the irony of that.
Um,  So I would print-  I would print these- I made these little things on Print Shop,  and there was a little greeting card thing, but it was a spiritual vitamin.
And every- on the front,  it said,  You were- you were destined for greatness.
Here's your daily spiritual vit- I was  proud of my title.
Here's your daily spiritual vitamin from Minister RD-NAME-4.
I'd started a group from New Faith Ministries.
I had the date on it.
I put little star stickers on it.
and inside, there will be a scripture at the top and a little message.
It was like the little daily bread,  and on the back I'd have a little quote.
Passing 'em out.
E- Every morning, my junior, my senior year.
And people got mad  when I ran out.
They- I mean, were upset, teachers and students.
We had the, you know, and it was- And I didn't realize until  I graduated  how-  what the impact was.
And not until a year ago,  one of my friends took a picture  of one she kept from the last- my last day.
Last day I did a whole sheet.
I said we gonna go out in style.
And she took a picture that she still had it,  and posted it on Facebook, and she's like, I still have this.
Remember you know, when we- when you did these.
That you know- that m- made a difference.
Blah blah blah blah blah.
So I think it was around that time I was really grappling with,  Yeah, art thing is cool but that's not what I wanna do.
I want to help people.
Um,  and that's, you know, that's kind of where my head was even when I graduated.
And I think cause I grappled with that so much I didn't know what I wanted to do was- when I got to  RD-SCHOOL-5 I was like all over the place, like okay.
I went down there a little happy Christian.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
But see- and the- and the other side of this was much as I was doing all that, Yeah.
And I was a little rebel.
I was a little rebel.
I never liked- Little bit still are.
I didn't w- I didn't-  I didn't- as much as I grew up in the church,  I didn't want  to be  churchy.
And even it's gotten-  I don't wanna say worse, but it's gotten worse now,  and I didn't want-  RD-SCHOOL-5 is where black Baptist preachers go for school.
You are a black Baptist preacher, you go to RD-SCHOOL-5.
You don't go anywhere else.
And that-  I didn't want that.
I didn't want that.
Yeah.
And I don't-  It's funny.
I don't even remember who  suggested it,  but I went for a visit and went- It was a nice school.
Nice campus, it was small enough.
I didn't wanna do a big school.
Uh, as crazy as I am, I'm still very much a introvert,  so the idea of a big campus freaked me out.
Green.
Yeah.
Blue.
Yeah.
So I didn't wanna go to- like, they were like, you can go to VCU.
Ooh.
That was-  and I remember walking  up Broad Street from RD-SCHOOL-5  to VCU on some days.
Too much.
Too much.
Cause  I don't know.
I'm- I'm introvert- And I'm realizing more and more what- that does not-  that's not shy, that there's a difference of what that- You know it really mean- Yeah.
Yup.
Yup.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The noise.
The people meter.
When- And I know-  I know when my people meter is getting low.
And I tell the teachers a lot, um, okay, if we doing drop offs, then we need to go ahead and go now cause in about a hour,  I don't need to be around people.
And it's not personal.
As now that- that meter's gonna be at zero  and either, one, you're not gonna like me,  um,  or you probably not gonna like me.
And  I ain't gonna really care cause at that point  I don't have anything left.
And then I'm empty and I don't-  I've been in a place where I'm trying to operate on fumes.
That- that's not fun.
That's not a fun place.
It wasn't a g-  Yeah.
It wasn't a fit.
The other thing was is that, you know, my mom raised me  pretty close knit.
And I'm a mama's boy, if that- if that hasn't been noted or something.
I am.
So I- I don't s- I'm not a brat because she taught me how to stand on my own  um,  but I was r- I was raised very close knit,  very kind of under the wing.
And  so the college  freedom  caught me of guard.
Um, and I lost a little bit of my mind, got down and you know, for the first time you're  able to  be free and confront and do and oh, okay.
So I was doing more  freedom and e- exploring  than I was studying  and working,  which didn't do so well for me.
I went down and I remember my god mother went with us,  she pro- was proclaiming across the campus, this is little minister right here!
I was like, okay, don't do that.
Um, and then I was- Mm.
But then I was in my little thing- I was putting my little spiritual vitamin sheets on my door  and- and  then I had to take those down cause it wasn't lining up  too much with what what was going on.
Mm.
Mm-mm.
And so that-  And it's probably the first time I really looked at me  and  started to see  and make choices for myself.
I went to college cause  that's what you supposed to do when you graduate high school.
And I never s- at any point said, hey,  this is what I wanna do to do this.
I went cause that's what you supposed to do when you graduate high school.
Yeah.
I think-  I think I give it  without saying it, but I think I also try to give it  with saying that.
I think I give it by saying it just cause this the life I live  um, in a lot of ways, and I think the older I get- Just turned thirty five-  Woo woo.
Um- That's right.
Yes we are.
I think the more- the older I get  and the- the more I'm liberated  in that sense of knowing who you are and being who you are and doing something with your life and knowing that your existence is your existence, not anybody else's, and that your life should not look like everybody else's life.
That's my message more and more.
I struggle with the fact that I hadn't finished school and I look- and I get frustrated sometimes, and I look around and I say, what these people are doing this and they going this and,  why is it not-  what is the-   what is the thing with me for why it's such an issue?
There are other people that work and go to school.
There are other people that take care of sick parents and go to school.
It's always been this thing.
And I- for the longest time I couldn't figure it-  I still haven't quite figured it.
I'm at a point now where I want to do it  for me,  and so figuring out how to get around whatever it is that's blocking it.
But it's about me  wanting to do it, to deepen  my own knowledge base  and to- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yup.
They ain't gonna do it.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yup.
And I think I- I s- I'm seeing the  connect with  you know, going and living the life that I wanna live  for myself, and doing what I wanna do for me.
Then it's- I see it as a part of that, and I hadn't made that connection before.
And I used to beat myself op-  beat myself up over that.
But I realize my journey's my journey and that it's not a bad thing that I got it at this point and this person got it at that point.
I got it.
So, let's get it.
Right.
Uh.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's why- I-  there are a lot of things sometimes in my life that don't make sense, that are, you know- and I have  prayed and cried and kicked and screamed, and with god, like, for real, this is- this is what's going on.
There are parts of my life I- I can't understand, can't figure out.
This  part of my life has always made sense.
At the moment  that I realized it,  at RD-SCHOOL-2,  and said, hey  Ms.
RD-NAME-2, I really wanna start this peer mediation program cause these kids are wild.
They keep coming in.
Teachers keep sending them to me, and  they just sitting and looking.
From that point,  through  youth ministry and  after school programs and mentoring programs and  working about- and then I mean just all of these experiences that- that I've had,  working with- it makes sense,  you know.
At the end of the day,  even this transition  for me  back  here  to teen world makes sense.
I left the teens, went to the little people- And went to the little people slash grown people, and that-  that didn't work out.
And- and I had- I said this to  one of our partners,  if passion  and pay  is not enough to motivate you  I don't have anything else to give you.
I don't.
And I- I struggle-  And I thought I wanted to be-  I thought I wanted to- this next phase, I wanted my life to be, alright,  let's train the trainer.
Let's get with these  first-  uh, these first responders of youth development, let's train adults.
I don't wanna do that  because- and not- well I don't- I don't say I don't wanna do that.
Uh, let me take that back  cause I love  training and teaching, like I love to go to workshops and once I stop being crazy and lazy and  to run with this idea that I have,  you know, I'm'a get a chance to go and train,  but  I think in this role as a supervisor and a manager of  staff,  I've struggled with that.
Passion and pay drive- w- pay doesn't even drive me.
This is clearly ain't a place for pay to drive you.
Passion drives me here  but-  And I know that that works for me, but if passion and the fact that this is your job  doesn't drive you, I-  And I've strugg- I don't know what else to give you.
I can't coach you to  care.
You have to bring that with you.
I can't coach you to say,  even if I-, you know, this is my job.
This is what I'm getting paid to- even though the circumstances are not perfect in this particular  organization but  this is where you are.
And if it's not where you gonna- where you don't wanna be,  then leave.
Don't stay and be a blockade to the young person that needs you to listen or to hear or to bring your resources or to care.
Like, li- and then- you know- and then, I guess the other struggle for me is that  now not only do I not know what to give you, but now you pissing me off.
Cause these- these kids mean- even the- the little people sometimes- I'll struggle with tryna figure out how to reach the little people,  and I'm, you know- it's a challenge.
But I love these- I love young people,  so don't-  don't come and n- don't do that.
Cause now it's personal.
And this- this is very personal for me.
That's why my fr- my friends-  some say, you are crazy.
I am,  and I get that,  but I'm okay with it  because you kind of need that to do this work  the right way,  you know?
Well you don't make time.
Well,    okay.
Th- Yeah.
I am, and I think that's a big part- I think that's a big part of it.
I'm-  I think as much as I give,  and I say that as humbly as I can.
I know I- I try and give a lot.
At the-   At the end of the day, I like going home to r- recharge, and it's just me.
Um,  I recently had uh, one of my godsons who now stays with me  uh, graduate, and he's getting ready to go to school in the fall.
And because he has an internship, uh, with Department of Energy,  this is a little easier for him to be in DC.
So I said, alright, well you can- you can hang.
That's been a big adjustment  because now I-  I'm good with not having to say,  oh, you know, hey let's plan  what are we doing for dinner.
I'm fine with going home and not having to have that conversation and not have to say- and not have to think,  oh wait, there's two of us.
And people, you know, it would be great- companionship would be cool!
But it takes more work than I want to put in right now.
And I'm okay with that.
It's all you need- you need- you need some love.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I- Just cause I don't have- just cause I'm not dating somebody doesn't mean I'm void of love, like mm, I still- I still have that,  but  I'm just not at that place where I wanna put that  work  into-  that's work.
Relationships are work,  and I'm already in like, eighty relationships at one time right now, so I don't really have time for eighty one.
And I'm okay w- and right now I'm okay with- I thi- I would like to think at the point where  I do want to add  I'm either gonna d-  subtract some  or I'll make room.
But that person has to understand.
All of this.
You know.
And I don't know if that means I gotta- I got to be in a relationship with somebody that's in youth development, that gets it,  or is in human services and gets it.
That's a lot that you bring home.
Last serious relationship I was in, you know,  girlfriend,  oddly enough.
Um,  we both were in youth work,  and  we got that.
And that was a good part  of- that was a good part of us  because we got it.
We can come home and talk about the- the good and the bad and cry about the bad and celebrate the good and go  you know, show up for each other's kids at events and programs and like, who was that?
Oh.
Oh, okay cool.
Yeah, well you go.
I don't know your name little boy, but good job.
I'm proud of you for getting that award cause you broke your foot and you still ran it- across the track or whatever.
You know,  but it's- it was a good-  that was a good part of that,  so.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yup.
Mm-mm.
I think,  like when I think back to RD-SCHOOL-2, I remember people who- I mean, there were families in the community who were there for years,  decades.
And so, uh, Miss RD-NAME-2 who lived on  RD-ADDRESS-8  which was a block and half away from RD-SCHOOL-2,  uh, and who always passed out the little butter cookies with the ring around it that you put on your finger on it.
Yup!
She would pass those out with  sweet Kool Aid.
I never understood the connection.
Like cookies and milk,  yeah.
But not cookies and Kool Aid.
Uh, but she always passed those out after school,  and nobody's mother said, well are you- who is this lady?
Who is this house you going to?
Where'd those cookies come from?
There was a sense of-  that we were connected  when there was an issue.
Perfect example.
Fifth grade year,  uh,  we were welcomed by Miss RD-NAME-1, who was a new teacher,  but she would not be with us long  because in her third week, Miss RD-NAME-1 decided that she wanted to curse  at the fifth grade class of RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School,  many of whom had been together since  pre kindergarten and even at Tabernacle across the street.
This was a community of parents,  students.
We had been sleepovers.
We had been- I mean, friends, Chuck E.
Cheese, the whole nine.
That night,  every child must have gone home and told their parents because that night at Tabernacle, every parent was in the church  hall  to meet.
And the next morning,  every parent  was in the principal's office.
By the afternoon, Miss RD-NAME-1 was gone.
I- I- that moment- I always tell people that story.
That moment stood out to me because I had never seen a group of parents or people  move and shift something so quickly.
Every child must have gone home and said, Miss RD-NAME-1 uh, lost her mind and cussed at us.
A- and I may- I r- I can visually see  sitting in the basement of Tabernacle, these parents in this huddle,  in these chairs,  and, you know, what took less than a hour  and then everybody showed up the next morning.
Nobody said, oh, well just get out.
I gotta go to work.
Just get out, I gotta go get my coffee.
No.
This woman is crazy.
She cussing at our kids.
She got to go.
And they didn't leave until that woman was gone.
Miss RD-NAME-1 was gone  that afternoon.
Out.
Before there was principal autonomy  in the schools,  Miss RD-NAME-1 was gone.
There was a- a- a connectedness, a belonging, a protection,  and then people moved.
And I think all of the societal ills that we've dealt with  from the crack ep- epidemic to the violence  to gentrification that has split the community  and sent people running every which away.
Older people passing-  f- uh, older people retiring and moving down south,  all of that.
You drive through Deanwood now it's a different f- It's a whole different feel.
It's a different vibe.
And  I see that in- even in Southeast.
It's not-  And I moved here particular- specifically  because this is where I serve.
So I wanted to be able to live in the same place.
That was important for me to have that connection.
And find people that care  at all- I didn't find businesses that cared,  that said, oh well you at the RD-WORK-5 down the street?
Oh, well let's work with you on this and that.
I didn't find people, and I still don't.
The kids that we serve in- in RD-WORK-3,  are not coming from the community.
They're not.
And I think that that- I think that that says a lot about what we look at  as community.
The fact that we can  have Parkland  here at nineteenth, and then two blocks over  at twenty second have a deuce deuce,  and there's a beef.
Y'all two blocks apart from each other,  but Parkland kids won't walk up twenty second street.
Twenty second kids won't walk through Parkland.
At all.
It's a death-  death war- or death threat if you do.
If I drive the Club bus up twenty second, kids duck down on the seat, they're telling me to go the other direction.
It's a breakdown of what family and community  mean, and we aren't-  and I think there's a lot of issues for them.
Yeah.
This bee- And I- I mean, it's- it's been here I think as long as the Club has been here cause  um like, RD-NAME-1  um,  RD-NAME-2  used to talk about, you know,  how they used to try and go and stand in between  uh,  factions between- from both communities.
Um, and I think it started with  a- a violent act.
Somebody might have been killed  in Parkland by somebody from twenty second, and then it's just gone back and forth, back and forth.
I think the same with- with Parkland and then Congress Park, which is  two blocks over on the other side of the Giant.
Uh, that whole little shopping center, that community on the other side,  you know.
You- if you from Congress Park, you don't necessarily-  are not necessarily welcome in Parkland.
And- and it's- it's weird to see  Parkland just kind of dropped in the middle  of all of this  interestingness.
Um,  and when I moved here,  the only stipulation I gave the rental office was I didn't wanna live  on Stanton Road, on the one way street  because I-  I drove past- and then you talked about Joe Clarke- that one way street felt like East Side High  prior to Joe Clarke.
When you would drive up the street, the en- the energy, and I'm a big reader,  spiritual person- big reader of energy  that comes out of people and places  and the ground  and- and- and all- I think all of that-  the- the drugs,  the violence, the blood that's on these grounds, all that stuff just talks  and speaks.
And when you come up that street,  there's so-  and the street is two blocks, but it is the most-  I can't even really think of the word.
It's the most-  it's heavy, like your heart gets heavy coming up those- up- up those two blocks.
And, I mean I think it' just-  It's an example of  the breakdown  um, of  a community, of a people.
I mean, you have to- I think it goes back to systemic things that were  put in us  during slavery  and Jim Crow  and all those things that just  are bearing fruit.
Um,  bearing fruit now.
It's just- it's broken.
It used to be neutral.
Um,    we predominantly  serve Parkland  from kids that come in the community of Parkland, Congress Park,  um, but  I don't- we don't have any from twenty second.
Covenant House  gets kids from twenty second.
But what was beautiful about  um,  when we did our Balling at the Art  series-  and this was before I knew all of this, about the beef.
I just said, hey,  y'all our partners.
Y'all got some guys.
We got some guys.
Let's play ball.
Didn't know anything about the beefing issue.
We went six weeks  practicing,  having these games,  never issue.
Kids from twenty second and Parkland in one place.
Dapped each other up after the game.
We crossed from every- every- all three games we won,  dapped each other up.
We sat down-  the la- the last- after the last game- that Saturday- that next day,  Saturday morning, we sat down with Chick Fil A  and talked about what it meant to be  young black men  in Southeast.
No issue.
So it can work.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
To be feared.
Yeah.
Um,  yeah.
That you are going to  do something dangerous  or bad  just by your presence.
Um,  I think about  uh- we took the teens to go see Fruitvale Station  when it came out, and then caught the train back on the green line.
And on the train,  uh, eight or nine of the teens left with me.
There was a group of White and Asian people who got on around  Navy Yard.
And I don't think they realized I was the chaperone or the staff person with them  cause I was standing up.
I'm standing by the door, the- the teens are all o- hucked up over here.
This group gets on to the right,    and the comments that they started making  in earshot of the group,  oh, look at them, oh, they think that-  they think that-  um-  oh, what did they say?
Oh- those- those- those kids, they- they must be going back to Anacostia.
Oh they're laughing.
They're talking so loud.
Oh, they're this, they're that.
And  they were just being teens.
Yeah.
But yeah, and so,  they were just being teens,  having fun, talking, laughing,  nothing inappropriate.
And  uh, I don't remember who it was, one of the teens, saw my response,  because on my face,  the disdain and  frustration.
And not only are they saying these things, they're looking  at the teens  as if  being black,  and being young  on the train in a group  means that you are thugs and about to do something to them.
And you know,  there was a big part of me that wanted to  say something,  but in that moment, I felt if I did,  one I had the hands on my s- on my shirt,  had the- I was branded.
So I had the logo, and I didn't think that what I was getting ready to say was getting ready to represent the organization at its best.
I wasn't gonna- I wasn't gonna be professional about it, and so I opted not to say anything.
But we had a very serious conversation  that night  with them,  and oddly enough, that- that was  right before we went to go to the Hill  to go visit Congressman Maxine Waters.
And so,  I guess it was like a week or so in between that.
The morning of the visit,  um,  the  French State Department  released a  travel warning to its residents  who were visiting the US.
And in it they said to avoid certain areas,  Union Station, I remember,  and I remember they said Southeast  and Anacostia  to avoid  at all.
Union Station you can go to in the daytime,  but don't go to Union Station at night.
But Southeast and wa- and Anacostia,  don't go to in the daytime,  late in the midnight hour.
Not- don't ever go  at all.
And RD-NAME-2 saw that,  read that article  that morning  when we were here early getting ready to go see the Congresswoman,  and it started this conversation about  redefining what it means to be from Southeast  as a black  youth, as a black person to be from Southeast,  which started this whole- I think what may have even made the- laid some of the groundwork for Our Lives Matter because everything that they did now they wanted to  prove  to people  that great things come out of this-  this part of the city,  that they are not their  environment.
Um,  and the- sadly enough they had to prove that to some of the people that were in the environment  and in the community, and what that meant to f-  to them,  to the young people who chose to come to the Club  who had friends who didn't choose to come to the Club  because they made other choices  that were not always positive choices,  and what that meant for them to stand up and say, yup,  I'm gonna be different  because that's what I wanna do.
That's who I choose to be.
Um,    so, I mean, it- it's- it's this whole notion that  to be from Southeast doesn't mean anything .
It's the same as you.
Tryna figure out-  Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
It um-  one of the things that I- I recognized was  uh, an increase in their  pride and their participation in the Club.
Um,  and it t- it took me  until now  to really see that.
And  what I think about- think back to is  the same pride I had at RD-SCHOOL-2.
And- and the place  that that was a- a safe haven and a sanctuary and  that was a place where I was built up.
I think it meant more to them  because they understood that there were people who devalued their lives  just because they were black,  who didn't care about  how police interacted with them,  and there was this sense of clinging.
Um,  we spent more time together talking  outside of programs.
We had longer nights.
The night that the um-  um- the night that the Ferguson uh,    verdict was announced, I was actually in the middle of doing drop offs,  and I had  one alum  on the bus that I was taking home and  one current student-  current member.
And I remember  listening- we had it on the radio.
We listened to the prosecutor talk,  and  I personally- we had pulled over  to drop one of the kids at the metro station- I pulled over.
And I'm just listening, but I was kind of in the zone, but- and they're ask- they're talking.
The two of them are talking on the bus,  and I hear them,  but because I'm processing this myself, I- I'm just kind of in my own little world.
But the fact that that moment was shared  and so many other moments were shared  and so many more times they stepped up  and came out,  you know, I saw that cling, that-  That this was their place  of worth,  of value  and again, I just- I  go on all of my experiences that-  And it takes you to- in moments like that to realize,  the worth of your experiences.
This is their RD-SCHOOL-2.
This is their, you know, I've had the RD-SCHOOL-2  High School office  experience with a team  who I've had to pull him up  and say,  this is what you not gonna do  under my watch.
It's just not gonna happen like that.
Um,  so I watched them just-  and as I'm thinking back to that t- period of time,  they stepped up more.
They were more active.
They reached out more.
There were more conversations.
There were more text messages.
There were more-  And not specifically about what was happening.
Um,  and- and my kids are spoiled  because just of- cause of the way we do things.
So I don't wanna say that the neediness  increased but their need for  validation, it stepped up.
And I find myself giving more,  but okay with that  because they were reaching for that.
And I mean, you could- you could sense it and see-  and I think a part of me wanted  them to know  it's okay.
I know you don't wanna talk about it and you're not- you haven't quite figured out how to verbalize what you're feeling, but I see you.
I know you, and it's okay.
This is your safe space.
You don't h- you don't have to do anything to earn it.
This is your safe space.
Let's be goofy and crazy and wild  and dream big and be successful and  be mad at each other.
Let's- let's be all of that cause this is  your space, and it's alright.
It's okay.
Mm-hm.
Listen to music.
Um, I'm a music junky.
I got the chance to go see Jill Scott this weekend.
Um, I'm a simple person.
Doesn't take a- it doesn't take a lot.
Um,  top- top things I love to do is sit in a room and listen to music.
Loudly listen to music all day.
Um,  I think again that was just embedded.
My mom went to Howard for music.
Um, she sang.
Uh, she still will do a little something if you tell her.
When I go home,  a lot of times when I go home, we'll sit with the old Baptist hymnal.
We will flip through and n- not- the- We have seen these pages every visit and go  each hymn by hymn and just sing cause it- that was a- just a part of  you know,  our upbringing.
When I was younger,  there was a white, blue and orange Fisher Price  radio  that set on my  bed frame  at the head- on the headboard.
Had a little microphone on the side in case you wanted to get real extra and sing.
Every night that mus- that radio played  classical music,  every night.
Every night.
And so it was- it was embedded in me,  and the power  of the- I think the power of the art while I was s- while I was such a student of the arts,  it was put in me.
Um, but music for me is- is such an escape.
And I'm eclectic like crazy.
Like, you go through my playlist there's  gospel, there's reggae, there's  hip hop, there's  jazz, there's- I am.
I am.
Go go is huge.
It is.
It's like Mumbo Sauce.
Mm-mm.
It's like Mumbo Sauce.
Go go and Mumbo Sauce go hand in hand, go hand in hand.
I went to Baltimore and they told me, we don't have Mumbo Sauce.
What is that?
And I wanted to leave.
But um,   Northeast Groovers,  Junkyard,  Rare Essence,  Backyard Band,  Chuck Brown.
There's a different- there's a different go go back in the day,  and I remember mart- my aunt-  I have a aunt that lived on Drum Avenue, Capital Heights,  in the- you know the right across the- the- the line.
And uh, my cousins used to- they were heavy,  like they had the big bamboo chair.
I was- it was a picture of me sitting in the big bamboo chair with all the go go posters on the wall,  and I would go to the their house, and I would listen to Groovers  cause I was too young at that time to go to the go gos.
Uh and I- oh I actually- it was weird.
I only went to a couple of actual go gos, but I loved  the music and listened to- I still have- I have tapes.
Northeast Groovers Locket is the greatest go go song ever made in life.
It will- it will change your perspective on everything.
Oh.
Yeah.
When I um-  another former  thing you didn't know about my former life,  I danced.
I studied dance for eight years.
Did you?
But uh, through RD-SCHOOL-2,  uh, this group game up.
RD-SCHOOL-2, they did.
They did.
This group came up and- and they were from Palmer Park Rec Center  in PG County.
Um,  but they- the ladies came and said, we wanna teach dance.
And we learned-  I remember I did my first tap dance to Slide Some Oil to Me from The Wiz.
And I remember when they teach you the flap and you do the- the weird- the- s- the weird flap  and the shuffle cause you first learning  um,  how to tap dance, and I st-  just stuck with it for eight years.
We  transitioned from the school  and um,  went to Palmer Park.
And they didn't have any boys in their program, so me and four of my friends, we were the only boys that went  to their program, and two dropped off so it was only three of us, and we stayed.
I stayed for eight.
My boy, RD-NAME-2 who's a mentor here at the Club now  stayed for nine, and then my other friend RD-NAME-2 is still dancing.
He's danced for Ailey and  done all sorts of stuff all over the place, but  the discipline that came with that-  what we did- we danced w- a lot of our choreographed pieces were to go go.
And one of my favorite ones was to Locket  by Northeast Groovers.
And it was-  there's a freedom- there was a freedom about go go that was just-  because it was percussion.
Go go ain't nothing but percussion and shout outs.
That's it.
Pure, true go go,  percussion and shout outs, nothing else.
There's a new go go that's- that's now, and the sound is different.
I can't quite bang with it, but  you know, the old school,  that pocket beat,  and there's something that just, when you hear it,  it was so fresh.
Just like-  and it was- It was DC.
It was nobody else ha- you couldn't go anywhere and hear go go.
You couldn't go visit other places and have a Chuck Brown.
And you, when you heard his voice, it was something that was magic.
He was like the Pied Piper,  where you heard Chuck's voice or you heard the sound.
You know, and it was- it was great.
I remember when it- it started,  the actual go gos took turn- took a turn for the worse.
I remember watching this-  Channel Seven, ABC Seven did this report.
I had to have been in  middle-  middle school going into high school,  and they started doing this- this investigative report about the wild stuff happening at the go gos.
Like sexual assaults and-  and all these other thing- and I think that was when you started  seeing that there was a turn  um,  from it.
But it- it-  it still to this day is iconic.
D- and I said r- it is iconic as Mumbo Sauce.
You can't- Those two things you will not find  successfully duplicated anywhere else.
People will try on both fronts,  go go and Mumbo,  and fail,  epically fail,  because it's- it's- it's something in the-  that same energy I felt when I was in that school.
There was an energy that came with it that  you don't have it, you can't make it.
Okay.
You were gonna ask me what it is?
I don't know.
It's ketchup and something else.
Uh-huh.
It's like go go.
It's a little bit of everything,  and if you- you hear- if you ever like- like, youtube  interviews with Chuck Brown and you hear him talk about  what go go is and it's  salsa and merengue  and hip hop and pop and jazz  and big band.
And you had-  I mean you had young people walking around who didn't even realize that they were now  um,  you know, multi linguistic in music  cause they were listening  to all of these different things and exposed to all of these different-  and oh, you know, hey, hey that's go go!
Nah, son, that's jazz.
And how much you know, the- the Latino culture influenced Chuck's  music.
And how much that was a part of that you- you know,  exposed to all those different things.
So Mumbo Sauce is just like,  go go.
It's a little of this,  and really good Mumbo?
Nobody knows what- what's in it.
Could be cornstarch.
It could be this, could be that.
But the perfect-  the perfect ones are the perfect mix  of a lot of different stuff.
See I'd go to carry out,  so now,  Hamilton's,  uh, down on fourteenth street,  uh, has now  delivered the district wing  with Mumbo S- And you know, Hamilton's real nice, refined  restaurant.
I have not eaten this  yet, and there's a part of me that does not want to  because I think it's a cardinal sin.
Because unless you are getting it from an Asian  person,  which is odd because when it was first made, it was not made by Asians.
It was made by African Americans cooking in  little small kitchens in- in DC.
And it still is.
The best place to get it is little hole in the wall carry out.
Can't get it from a clean place.
Terrible thing to say, but  you know.
It does.
I mean- I mean carry out's Chinese food, so  you gotta- It's not.
So it's Chinese and American food.
And it's- Oh yeah.
Five wings and fries.
Ketchup, Mumbo Sauce, salt and pepper.
All day.
And you gotta order it just like- it's like going to Philly and getting a cheese steak.
You-  there's a way that Philadelphians order a cheese steak that lets you know that they're from there.
Five wings with fries.
Yup.
Ketchup, mumbo Sauce, salt and pepper.
Yup.
On your french fries.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And I think- I mean- it-  of course, like it- with anything, there's always going to be variations.
I know people who get it w- five wings and fried rice.
And they'll get mumbo sauce on the fried rice.
I'm not quite with that game.
Um,  but  mumbo sauce had to be in the picture.
There was a place- it's no longer open.
It's called Houng Pho  right near the DC  Eastern Avenue  border.
PG DC border.
The best-  Houng Pho was open when I was in elementary school.
The- at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah.
Right next to  uh- It was.
I mean those were good years.
Those were- I mean, good years for so many reasons cause it-  it was family- it's- every- it was like family reunion every day.
Like black family reunion.
Yeah.
No, no, no, but it was-  Those are- Those eight years are years I will never- I mean simple things.
I can remember when we used to take spelling tests on the half a sheet of paper,  and it wasn't a p- now, the teacher didn't have to tear it,  she ordered it from a magical paper store that sent  half sheets of paper.
And it was something special about spelling day when you got this half sheet of paper,  and you had to number it one to ten  and spell these ten words right.
They're- they're- they're visuals.
They're photographs in my mind I have of the school.
Nothing.
I remember the open space, and the- the- the bulletin board and the chalk board that was the divider.
And there was another class on side of- of the chalk board but you would never know cause you- you were so engrossed in what your teacher was doing.
It was right there.
I remember RD-NAME-4  who was the- I don't even know what Miss RD-NAME-2's title was,  but she was like the everything.
You would have thought she was assistant principal.
She was never that.
She's like the program coordinator.
Miss RD-NAME-2 had taught,  but by the time I got  there, she was no longer a teacher.
She was this administrator.
Um,  next to Miss RD-NAME-2, Miss RD-NAME-2 was RD-SCHOOL-2.
You had Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
You had RD-NAME-5.
You had RD-NAME-4.
Uh, you had RD-NAME-3,  the librarian.
Um- Oh yeah, she was right there.
Without a librarian.
RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-4.
And for some rea- You remember these people middle names.
That's how you knew-  it was RD-NAME-5, RD-NAME-4.
U- You remember.
You remember these people's  um,  names.
But RD-SCHOOL-4 had a- a friend,  and this was back in the day, where, you know, corporal punishment wasn't in the picture.
Her- her friend was called RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 was  about three yard sticks taped together.
And RD-NAME-4 would walk into the cafeteria.
She asked you be quiet,  and you didn't, RD-NAME-2   wham!
On the table.
I tell you you hear a pin drop, and I mean you can- I can- to to this day I can hear,  I told you be quiet!
RD-NAME-2 had a word where you knew she was cussing, but she couldn't cuss cause- so she didn't say a cuss word.
But she said, blame it.
And you knew she was really saying the other word, but she said, blame it!
And I can hear her  now  saying it.
But as much as she did that,  Miss RD-NAME-2 can say blame it  and be good.
Oh, Miss RD-NAME-1?
No, Miss RD-NAME-1 cursed at- at  us.
There was a pride built into RD-SCHOOL-2 students so strong,  it was almost a how  dare you?
Do you know who we are?
We are the RD-SCHOOL-2 Eagles,  and you have lost your mind.
You cursed at us.
You got to go.
She went.
But I- I mean just- those were- those were  special y-   I- I don't know why I remember this.
My mom-  And I mean the parents were there.
The-  They would have- when Mr.
RD-NAME-2 left, they had a going away for him,  and I remember my mom bringing a rum cake  to school.
And I thought it was the funniest thing cause she had=  rum cake, and I mean  this is one of them cakes where you- you spoon the rum over the cake three days- once a day for three days.
And so when you take this top off this cake,  okay, cool.
And of course no children ate the cake.
It was for the staff and the- and the parents,  but I mean just- there were moments  that  only could happen in a family in a community environment.
The even-  I remember falling asleep.
I remember I have horrible allergies.
I mean bad,  and one day it was so bad Miss RD-NAME-2 felt so bad for me.
Teachers and parents are- they not supposed to give no medicine to the children.
But because that's Miss RD-NAME-2 and she knows, and she knows Miss RD-NAME-2 was around the corner  Was it fine?
Yup.
They gave me Tylenol Allergy.
I'll never forget.
I slept six hours  on the green leather sticky stinky sofa in the main office.
And this one of them sofas with the wooden bench but the green  cushion that they had tied with twine to the bench.
And slept on there for six hours.
Tylenol knocked me out completely,  and that- to this day I have never used Tylenol Allergy cause I was- I don't never wanna sleep like that, that hard.
But there were just- there were m- I mean, I could go on- there are pictures in my head um, of those moments that  again were validating  and let you know that  you were special and somebody cared and your life meant something and  you know.
I try to use that.
Create moments that matter.
At the end of the day that's all we have.
We have moments that matter.
Moments that made you better.
Moments that helped you forgive.
Um,  moments that  made you laugh.
Like that  gut  wrenching  side hurting, tears down your face, laugh, that twenty years later you can think about it and still laugh just as hard.
Um,  create moments that matter  with people that you love, with  somebody that doesn't have what you  have.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yup.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I think that's what life is.
It's- it's seeing-  I think- well let me take that back.
I think it's life for those of us  who fight  for the better day.
You see-  what you see and what you hear are often two different  things.
And you see this- this darkness.
And you see this  sadness.
But  in your ear  there's a  one day.
No, not yet.
No wait.
S- That's um- Mm.
Yeah, yup yup.
Not a .
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But that's why I think for me why listening-  active listening is so important because listening is not just done with your- You have to listen with your whole body.
Your whole being is there, and  I mean every day.
And I- and that's-  and I'm- I'm- I'm grateful to God for this sort of sixth sense that I have  where, you know-  you know, my kids will come and, hey, I'm good.
No, you're not.
And I think it's- it's- I- it's m- it's my mama.
It's my mother in me.
It's the m- It's the RD-NAME-3 that's in me.
Uh, cause she was that and still  is.
I  cannot- as much as I try sometimes not to  burden her with my stuff,  I can't be around her and tell her, no, I'm good.
What's wrong?
And it's like,  n-  she can say two words and  the flood gates is like oh my god.
You know.
And so, she passed that, I think along to me.
And when these young people come in,  and- like you said, you see it.
It's in your eyes.
It's in your body language.
It's in how you set down in the chair as opposed to how you set in the chair yesterday.
It's in the tone of your voice.
It's in the way you ask me a question.
And I hear you.
And I've had moments where I've said to them,  take as much time as you want.
We're not leaving this space til you tell me what- or just something.
What is it?
No, I'm good.
What is it?
No, I kn- I- I haven't gotten as good as my mama, where she can break me down off of two what is its.
But there been moments where  you know, we get- we get to the what it is.
And it can be something simple or it can be something intense or- or m- or deeply meaningful,  but  I think that's what all of us want.
We want to somebody to see us.
I see you.
I see you.
I get you.
Again, I go back to the the glory days.
There were people who saw that.
And at points where I, you know,  battled with what it meant to be  the little chubby  dark skinned boy  and wrestled with that and  what that meant.
And there were people that saw  greatness.
So when I make  little spiritual vitamins in high school that say, you are destined  for greatness, that's real.
I see it.
I look for it in people cause somebody saw it in me.
When my teacher said, stand there and you wait until somebody-  until everybody stops talking,  they saw something in me, and when-  when I had that moment and people listened,  those people saw something in me.
You know, and I want that-  You know, I wanna create those type of moments for  not just the young people, but people,  like, it's- in general.
And that's- once I realized  junior year,  this art thing is cool, but  this is not what I'm supposed to do  with my life.
Now it's given a lot.
It's given a whole lot,  um, because it's given me discipline.
It's given me pride, given me creativity,  but it wasn't what I was supposed to do.
You know.
Mm-hm.
Yup.