Seven two zero seven eight.
Twenty-second?
You's almost-   almost a Cancer.
See, I was gonna say we was still good because you was in July at least.
But-  I was like, almost a Cancer.
I ain't say nothing bad though.
See.
See.
Um, Washington, DC.
Wow, there's so many.
So,  I grew up in Capers, right off of Seventh Street.
But then we also lived  in Parkside, which is like Mayfair, Paradise,  Kenilworth  Avenue area.
And we lived over here, on Fifty-Sixth and Clay  as well.
But pretty much  every Northeast and Southeast  minus Southwest, Northwest.
Oh god.
Let me see, I'm twenty-five, no.
Um,   I would probably say about, fifteen total.
Yeah.
It's so hard to distinguish cause when we crossed the line into PG it was like we were still in DC.
It literally was across the light.
In the world?
Dover, Delaware,  I lived in Texas,  Spain,  um, California,  South Carolina,  mm,  I- I'm thinking that's it.
Elementary I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 that was right there in  Parkside, Northeast.
And then, um, junior high, in- in, uh, high school I was in Maryland,  PG.
Um, well, I went to three different high schools.
I went to,  uh, RD-SCHOOL-3,  then I went to  RD-SCHOOL-2 and RD-SCHOOL-3.
I work with the RD-WORK-4 as their VP of Human Resources.
Um, worked with RD-WORK-4  as their chief HR,  and, um, RD-WORK-3 as their VP  of HR.
Um, a few other, uh, civilian places.
Always HR capacity, and prior to that, in the military for ten years, in HR capacity.
Uh, my mother was born  in South Carolina, raised in DC.
My father was born and raised in DC.
My father, um, he was-  he was a police officer for a short time,  and then he was in the military reserves  for a short time.
Um, and then I'm not sure if you heard of RD-WORK-8 but he's owner  of- part owner of RD-WORK-8.
Have all the contracts  DC, Maryland, Virginia and one of the oldest ones around.
My m- yup, my mom,  um,  worked for the Coast Guard  as civilian and military,  pretty much since she was fourteen.
Um, retired Coast Guard, and, um, retired Coast Guard civilian as well.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Wasn't a house.
Um,  it was definitely apartment.
Um,  we had row house at one point on Eighteenth Place when we was in Southeast.
Um, but they were always apartment buildings, always-  always the PJs, the projects.
Um, but I had fun.
Um,  growing up,  it's- it's weird knowing that you survived that,  because being a child,  you don't really notice.
It's- it's normal, it seems normal.
You don't really  realize the conditions you're in  because you're just so happy.
Because my parents did a really good job, they- first of all it was very rare,  my parents were together  married, the entire time til my father passed away,  which was twenty something years into their marriage.
So,  that was very rare, to see like,  actually my dad's, uh, black and Dominican and Italian, my mom's,  um,   uh,  Jewish and  African American.
You don't s-  but from face value they just look African American.
You don't see that  a lot  in this community, so.
That was a rare part.
So I had that,  and then just a happy childhood, so if there was any struggles,  we never knew.
I'm the youngest of four.
So we never knew.
Um,  so I had a lot of fun.
I didn't realize I'm in the ghetto, I'm in the hood, I'm in the projects.
People getting shot over there, crackhead over there.
Cause the crackheads was funny, and they was nice, and we ain't know they was on crack.
So,  um, and that's how it should be  when you grow up.
So that's what I remember the most.
It's not more so my neighborhood, it's the-  it's the reality that my parents chose to give us of our  environment,  which was  a good one.
So,  being  an adult today,  when I ride in that neighborhood and I know I'm like,  that's where I was?
Cause I know today,  what that was.
And, um, so they taught me  how to be with my kids, if ever.
Luckily they taught me enough to be like, you need to get a education so you never have to  create  those types of realities for your kids.
Mm.
I have two brothers and a sister.
They're all  eight, nine, and ten years apart from me.
But they're all back to back.
So I'm the baby.
And, um,  they- It's weird cause  with being like now  people can't even tell that we're-  they never could really tell other than when I'm a baby, but  they could not tell that we were so far apart.
Cause I grew up really fast being with them.
You know, always such a older  mentality.
Um,  it was good  growing up with my siblings.
I never felt like I was the  youngest, I felt like  I was just one of them.
Mm-hm.
The mentality, the conversations that I could have I couldn't have with my peer group cause they didn't understand those conversations.
So my peer groups tend to be older because I can  communicate  with them  whereas like, my six year old friends at that time,  they had no idea.
We're talking about earmarks and budgets cause that's what I sat and listened to my mom talk about cause she did budget analyst for   the Coast Guard and- and all the way through with the DOD for the President, so.
We talking about earmarks,  and budgets, and we're talking about  deficits and stuff, and they're like, what is  a defic- I'm like, you don't know what a deficit is?
You know,  so those were my conversations at six years old.
They talk that way too.
That's- these are the things- cause this is what we're-  Outside is outside, but in the house,  this is what we're hearing.
We're hearing my mother, my dad was a entrepreneur.
We're hearing things about that, so  in my mind,  I'm supposed to be entrepreneur.
That's what they did, I have my own business as well.
So in my mind,  I'm supposed to have  all these pieces of papers and accolades.
And  growing up it was a normal thing.
Like, oh we're supposed to go to school and  get this and  it was just a normal  thing.
And I liked the fact that  it was more of a mindset versus a  chore or struggle.
Yeah.
What about it?
Mm-hm.
Um, I absolutely hated elementary school, but I did very well, but I was very bored.
Because,  I went to school and I was not interested in  any of that stuff.
I wanted to talk about financials  and I wanted to talk about  how to write a check.
And I wanted to talk about things- I wanted to talk about  technology and stuff like that.
And the-  the teachers weren't even talking about that.
I didn't care about  elementary math, I didn't care about  that history, I didn't care.
I just did it because I knew that's what I needed to do to get my piece of paper.
And I wanted my piece of paper.
That's part of my plan, so.
That was my  like, juvenile  mentality.
At the same time, a mature mentality.
Well, Microsoft was coming out, you know, the t- the- the big square TV looking computers, that was the thing.
Um,  you had cell phones that were coming out, they look like  TVs on your hip, and pagers and stuff like that.
So,  that was technology to me, I wanted to know how is it that these beepers connect, and what are the frequencies and wavelengths in the  air that's making that happen and stuff like that.
So that was  technology that kids my age weren't  really paying attention to.
You know, I was learning to type  at eight years old.
They weren't paying attention to that, and to me that was a .
Mm-hm.
We did whenever, um, I was done  playing with the friends I chose to be with.
I'd be like, well, I ain't got nobody else play play with y'all.
Um, so.
So yeah it was like that.
I mean, I was really grateful to have parents that really nurtured  what I wanted to do.
Because  they had to sacrifice, they had to like, drive far to take me to be around the type of kids that  could  keep my interest.
Because, see,   kids in more affluent  neighborhoods,  that was a normal thing,  a normal conversation, so  I- they would take me to go  play with those kids while they do tea time with their moms and  whatever.
I'm playing with these kids who  aren't.
No,  I would say there's pros and cons to it.
Some would say,  oh, did you miss your childhood?
I feel like I really s- I really did have  a childhood.
I didn't have to worry about  bills and where we gonna get food, that wasn't my issue.
I chose to make my childhood  more intellectual.
Versus playing  hide and seek unless we was gonna be seeking,  I don't know, the stock market or something.
Like I  wasn't really  interested in that.
Mm-hm.
Mm, yeah.
At that time it wasn't really Northwest.
Northwest wasn't really that affluent  back then.
Northwest just started becoming affluent in I would say the past fifteen years or so.
Um,  it was more like, Potomac, Cheverly, which over that Northwest line.
Georgetown, parts of Georgetown.
Anything close to the hill,  cause she worked in a lot of  politician, political stuff, so,  stuff like that.
Um,    they would take me to those things, or,  um, to some of those  types of exhibits  or whatever.
Um, I liked to dream big  growing up.
So they would take me places that I could just sit  and they would let me like,  that's gonna be my house,  that's gonna be my whatever .
I always liked to just  dream big.
And they- they nurtured that  growing up, so.
I have no complaints at all.
And so I think it made it easier  for me when I- when I grew up  and I wanted to get out and do things cause I knew  there was a whole nother world.
And but now I actually wanted to see it.
I didn't start liking school til high school.
Yeah.
Oh high school was very fun.
I was pretty much in everything, I was on-  well, I started debate team in eighth grade.
I was on debate team,    I was in ROTC  the whole time.
Um, drama  club as well.
I know.
No.
Drama club, um, media team,    and, um,  just regular classes.
I didn't do any AP classes and people were so shocked.
And I felt like,   I don't wanna do AP because,  you know, you go through the whole class and you can make straight A's, but that one test you take at the end of the year,  if you don't pass it, you fail the class.
And  I didn't really think, oh I won't pass it, but I'm like,   what if I get sick,  or I don't do- I was- I always had these what ifs.
I said no,  I can- I can do these so called regular classes  and I can do additional stuff on my own, I don't need the grade for that.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
RD-SCHOOL-3 high school in PG County?
Yeah no.
There's no exposure there.
Um, Right over the Southeast line.
Wheeler Road.
Yeah, so.
Right, yeah no.
Prince George's County's.
Mm-hm.
Uh, no we- we just happened to move over the line, Um, right off of-  in Oxon Hill, right off of Wheeler Road, so  right there in p- the school  was right there.
And then we moved again.
That was a house  that we- we was renting.
Um, then we moved again    to, um, Suitland.
Off of, um, Silver Hill R- yeah, Silver Hill Road.
Cause that's Suitland that way.
So Silver Hill Road  and so- so RD-SCHOOL-2 was the school for that.
Um,  and then,  RD-SCHOOL-2  she- So the thing is, in high school,    I was extremely smart, always had a four point O or better,  but I was always fighting,  all the times.
I was always-  Boys,  mostly.
Always fighting.
So- and this is when I first learned that   educational system-  the public educational system,  um, really don't care about  kids  or what you're learning and    your education, they care about their numbers.
And I learned that because it would take until  the very end of the year  when we could freeze the grades before they would say, okay she can't come back to school.
Cause they wanna keep those numbers up cause I had good grades.
But my counterparts or my ch- my other- my peers  who didn't have good grades who may have been in the same level of trouble or better,  oh they're gone the first  little thing they do.
They were suspended, in school suspension, they're  expelled even.
So, one particular incident in RD-SCHOOL-2,  um,  I left RD-SCHOOL-2,  cause we moved.
Uh, but in RD-SCHOOL-2 where I got in the most trouble.
And,  end of the year, same thing.
I was used to it, so many of the same thing.
But I was leaving anyway.
End of the year,  there was me, my cousin who's a lawyer now  who went to Howard.
Um, it's funny.
But,   um,  and my other cousin, who's not a lawyer,  and,   um,  couple of friends of ours and we all  in this together, we're all in the office and  we're getting suspended.
And so  they freeze my grades, they freeze my cousin's grades who's a lawyer.
She had pretty good grades.
But the other three,  they didn't freeze their grades and they got kicked out.
And they had to take like these summer classes and stuff.
And I'm like,    all five of us are involved in this thing but I'm the only one that actually physically assaulted somebody.
And I don't get- and so I- This was in tenth grade.
And so I'm like,    you know,  I'm really starting to learn that these school systems,  um, at that time, I can't speak for now, it's probably worse.
But  they don't really care  about  the education, it's about the numbers.
Okay?
It's about how much more programs and attention and money they can get into their programs because  we are producing these types of    academ- academically,  um,  excelled  children,  right?
So I learned that.
Um,  so RD-SCHOOL-2 kicked me out, of course  at the end of the year when there was like, a week left of school.
And I'm done, you know, I- I done gave you good grades.
So I go to p- RD-SCHOOL-3,  and we still lived- And at this point we bought a house,  our very first home, we purchased a home, so we rich now.
Um,   right across from Andrews  Air Force Base.
Really nice neighborhood at the time.
I would say right now it's- mm,  it's teetering.
Still close to the line,  but  very nice area.
Brand new house built from the ground up, so it was a really big deal for us.
Up until that point we've always lived-  you know we went from PJs to  renting homes  to now owning  a home.
But it took-  by this time I am sixteen.
So sixteen years.
So that's why I say about fifteen.
So, um,    we go- I go to RD-SCHOOL-3 at this time.
RD-SCHOOL-3 was not my school.
Um,  Suitland  was the school.
My mom was like, you're not  going, I need you-  At this time RD-SCHOOL-3 is in Clinton,  Maryland.
And Clinton, Maryland at that time was like,  very suburban.
It was basically  Waldorf, you know, it was really really suburban.
Super green, super, um, vanilla, you know,  really nice.
And that's where she wanted me.
The education was there.
Academically I fit the education.
So this was another example of how they don't care.
We go there,  the principal- Um, we go there the day school starts.
My mom goes to register me,  the principal is- looks at my record and he sees the grades and he's like, oh you'll be great.
I had a four point O, four point five  really good grades the whole time.
And so,  on paper I'm like,  give her a scholarship, you know,  like, give her whatever.
And he was just so excited and  he didn't even pay attention to the fact that I wasn't zoned  for that school.
I was zoned for Suitland.
So,  when she finally said, okay well-  well, she's supposed to be in Suitland,  but we- I really want her to come here,  oh I'll make it happen.
Well he looked over  I think the form is called  PS seventy-fours,  I think, I can't remember.
It's like your file when you bad or whatever so.
He opens the file,  and there's like a stack.
He's like-  uh, his whole mentality changed.
He- th- the- this stack- this really doesn't match this name or this person, like it's just-  How do you have time to get in this much trouble  like, when do you do your work?
In suspension, so   you  do your work, so.
Um,  at that point he didn't want me to come there and my mom was like, oh she's coming here.
So she walked right over to  school board,  um, which is- I think is Upper Marlboro or whatever.
And, um,  she totally-  I do not- like, sh- I don't know what she said to the lady but I got approved  to go there.
I don't know what she said, but.
And I came and the next day and the principal- It's nothing the principal can do.
He just like-  But  I made a promise,  I wouldn't get in any more trouble,  I would just ignore p- I just had a bad temper, at the time.
Um,  words.
You didn't have to touch me, just words.
Really cause   growing up-  when you grew up it's like survival when you come into the Maryland side it's like, we don't talk.
Like,   you know, stuff like that, so.
Um,  I did really good  my eleventh grade year,  um, up until  the end of the year.
Um,   there was a gentleman  and I was really good friends with his brother in ROTC cause I was in ROTC,  Air Force ROTC.
And, um,    he- I guess he liked me, I didn't like him.
And he would, uh, kind of taunt me every day.
And one particular day it was day before, uh, senior prom cause he was a senior.
I was a junior.
And he's sitting on his own car.
And at this time I have a car now so I'm like, really moving up.
And, um, he says,  can you give me a ride?
All I said was no,  and I just kept walking to my car.
And then he proceeded to call me  a very derogatory name,  right?
And I ignored him, and got in my car like, talking to myself like a crazy person.
Like,  just go to your car,  you did good all year.
Really coaching myself.
I go to my car, I sit in my car and I'm just coaching myself.
And I look up,  he's standing in front of my car now.
So I ran him over  with the car.
And, um-   twice.
And that was the only time.
But luckily I was also assistant to our security team,  and this guy really likes me cause he was like, you have so much potential.
And he was like, I don't have nothing on camera.
I don't see no- so-   But his mom was extremely livid, she wanted to press charges and everything.
But she, um,   real- when she saw- when she found out the whole story,  is when she really turned on her son, because she said it was really no reason for you to taunt this young lady.
You have your own vehicle, this would have never happened  had you not really instigated this.
It didn't really excuse me running over his legs and breaking them, it's just that  she said, your legs wouldn't be broken right now if you hadn't  taunted this young lady, so.
Um,  twelfth grade was smooth.
Very smooth, twelfth grade.
So twelfth grade was my most smooth year  and, um,   I think my most mature.
So,  I'm nothing like that obviously.
You- you couldn't be  where I am today.
Yeah.
It was funny stories.
Uh-huh.
Well, I had decided, um,    and I was always taught from my parents,  you want change, you gotta change,  period.
You in control of everything,  uh, in your life,  everything, whatever.
You- you know, you- you wanna be a millionaire, you go hang around millionaires.
You know, you-  five dummies in the room, you the sixth dummy.
So, you gotta hang around what you wanna be.
And that's what I decided to do.
I was like, you know what, I don't wanna be running people over  all the time they say something to me.
I don't wanna be pushing nobody on train tracks, you know, I don't wanna be doing stuff like that  so.
I started to  go- literally get up,  as a teenager,  like seventeen at this time, in twelfth grade,  drive to these super rich areas,  and just go hang with those people.
And that's when I learned the power of networking.
So,  I was like, you know what?
I remember being a little kid,  networking.
Didn't know what I was doing, I was just playing.
But I'm networking and I'm getting with the types of people that I wanna be around.
And  these people are talking about education,  higher education, entrepreneurship,  inventions.
Things that you just  sit at home,  you know, to where you go work for a place it's because you just want to now cause you have to.
I'm here because I want to be.
I don't have to be here, I make more money in my own business.
I like HR,  period, I love it.
I can't- I just can't step away from it.
Um,  and that- they taught me that.
Um,  I went to the military because I had my daughter young.
My oldest daughter, she's twenty.
I had her- her young.
But I said I'm not gonna let that  get in my way.
So,  I went to the military so that I- cause I didn't wanna depend on my parents.
I didn't wanna be one of those, um, people  that, oh well I'm gonna  live at home and  pretty much now have my parents raise me and my daughter.
And  so I said no,    I'm gonna go to the military,  start a career  where I can take care  of my daughter, everything, and get my education.
And that's what I did.
So, it was the best decision ever.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, only for like, um,  about eight months.
She was with my mom.
When I went through, uh, my mom and my dad  when I went through basic training  and tech school and then whatever school after that.
Then I got stationed in Dover,  which was-  which is specifically one of the reasons why I picked mortuary.
Mortuary was my original field.
Uh, yeah.
Well  you can't make a mistake, it's quiet.
So, I picked mortuary  and- They always die.
Mortuary and  being a- uh,  a GYN,  OB.
Always- Yup.
So, um,  also went into mortuary.
I went in because it's quiet,  not cause I didn't wanna talk to anybody, but I wanted to study.
Cause I was like, I'm not gonna be here forever.
I'm'a get my degree,   you know, that was my  plan.
Um,  and it was just to do mortuary.
HR was never-  I had no- HR was not even  in my, um, path  at all.
Um, I didn't quite no what my path was gonna be other than that I'm'a just get my education and see where it takes me.
It just so happened that, um- And I was a true mor- like mortuary .
I was doing f- like forensics, working with the FBI and stuff like that,  um, as they come through Dover.
Cause that's the main mortuary for the entire military.
Not just the Air Force, all the branches.
Um,  one of our ladies went out  on maternity leave.
And they're like,  RD-NAME-2 we need you to come,  you're really good talking with the people.
And I was like, I don't wanna talk to these people.
And they was like- Right, I was like, whatchu mean?
I'm cool talking to you.
So they're like, no I want you to talk to the people.
And- but I didn't know how to take it because they said, well,  you're really good talking to people because you don't have any emotions.
I was like,  what are you trying to say?
He was like, you don't care.
I was like, I do care.
They needed somebody who can talk to-  Because  when you're in the HR side of mortuary you know everything,  right?
On my side of the house you're just a number.
I don't know your name,  I don't wanna know your name.
I don't know where you came from, I don't know if you have kids, I don't know if you're pregnant now.
I don't know anything.
And we kind of like it that way cause it keeps you detached.
Well on the HR side you know everything.
So you knew- you know  that they just joined or  they might've died in a car accident.
You know, it's not always war.
It's whatever.
And they just have that benefit cause they're military,  or they're military dependent.
So,  they're like, we need someone who can  talk to the families  and just be  mundane.
Just be  morbid.
And just be like,    this is what happened,  blah blah blah.
And while the families are falling all on the floor you're just like,    I'm gonna leave these papers here for you,  you know.
You have to kind of keep it  separate.
Um, I said  okay.
I said, this the HR side?
Hm.
But-  so I came to HR through that door,  but that's the military mortuary side of it.
Um,  but then I kind of liked it and I learned  the vast  world  of HR.
It's so broad, um,  it's ever changing.
It's never the same, mortuary's always the same.
Like we- this-  people die, you try to fix 'em, you can't fix 'em.
Casket, no casket, it's-  it's always the same.
Um, HR is so  vast, you meet so many people.
So many personalities,  um, so many characters  all over the world.
Um,  the universal laws  are the same,  and then you have these little break out laws.
And so,  it was just so fascinating and intriguing and then so I decided to  run from there.
Oh, well without giving out obviously any names, or the company.
Um,   one company I work with, um, the craziest stories,  um, that were just so- Considering it was a Fortune five hundred company.
This is the only company I work with that's  this small,  which  I'm inviting, I'm actually ready for that   cause everyone has been  forty-five hundred or more,  so.
No.
This particular company is like a hundred thousand or so.
And  all of the district managers just wanna sleep with all the cashiers.
And I'm like,   So I- I spend most of my time doing  investigations.
All the time,  constantly doing investigations.
And the funniest stories are like the district managers  treating  some of the cashier women  like their personal    escorts,  but in a respectable way.
Um, I mean, buying them things, flowers and ugh, it's just so-  And I would just be sitting and-  and keep in mind,  you're- as a HR professional,  you work closely with your district managers, they're your- they're your business partners.
Like, RD-NAME-3 would be a business partner to me.
Um,  so it gets weird to them  when it comes  to investigation cause though we're business partners and we're,  um, professional friends,    I know how to turn it off.
That's where mortuary comes back in,  I turn it off when it comes to the investigation side.
And they feel embarrassed because they're like,  god, like this-  It's embarrassing  when they know that you know  what they've been doing.
Um,    those stories are always the funniest because they-  that's when I learned that people can be very creative  with their stories  when they come up with things.
Even when you say,  it's on video.
Oh,  that's not me.
I'm like, like Shaggy?
That's not you?
They like- I'm like, okay.
And so I'm like, that's-  that's not you.
No that's not- that's your twin.
That's your twin?
Yeah, that's wearing your clothes?
In our store?
Putting in your code?
So,  I mean, it- those- those pieces are  hilarious, and I still  get those stories today from the same company cause people are still there.
So yeah.
Mm-hm.
We- oh yeah no problem, we do mostly, um,  media  sponsorships, lots of sponsorships, we get a lot of sponsorship requests.
Uh, but more consulting.
Um, because I kind of got burnt out  with actually soliciting  sponsorships.
Um, I just didn't wanna do it anymore.
So- but I got really good at it.
So I said I'm just gonna consult people on how  to do it.
How to put your package together, what that package should look like.
Things like that.
Um,  and I done have fun doing that.
Um, lots of business consulting  on both the  corporate and entertainment side.
I have like, four staff members.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Oh my god.
Um,    I left, um, traveling with the military.
And when I came back,  um, like in O six I think it was,  I- I-  I mean, I just was like-  When you've been all over the world and you've been to these places where mentality is just so different,  um, the mentality is more positive, people are more  willing to help you be better,  and people are willing to just be better,  period.
And you come back  here  and people are just angry,  um,  it's a crab world, everybody's pulling each other down,  um,  just a bunch of negativity basically.
But,    I s- I also digress and say that's what I see,  because of where I came from,  from so long being away  that  when I compared it,  that's what I see is the negative stuff.
Um,  and I hated it.
I was like,  I am moving, I can't be here,  this is- I'm going to commit a crime,  and I don't wanna commit a crime  cause I don't want my kids in these schools.
I'm'a beat a teacher up.
I can't do it.
So,  um,  I end up-  when I first came back I was  right over the DC line, in Suitland, Forestville type area.
And  not even six months  and I- I moved.
And, um, it was like- it was-  it- the rent was good, it was all, you know, utilities included.
Um, and it was- it was really good for me to just be there for a little bit before I purchased.
I couldn't even last six months.
And, um,  I moved to Waldorf  where it was-  traffic was horrible,  the rent was way more, at least double  what I was paying.
But   at that time I had my two daughters  and   it was worth it.
I was like, you can't really put a price tag or a convenience  marker  on safety and education, things of that nature.
You know, I don't have to worry about being a teacher up here.
Things like that.
You know, I don't have to worry about  a lot of safety things.
You know, you- you can't just be like you on the prairie and just be free for all.
But  you just don't have those.
Whereas I can go to work,  and not be so  like, oh my god,  what's going on?
And is- is somebody breaking in my h- You know, I don't have to do all of those things.
Um,    it probably was moving to that area  that kind of  allowed me to process being back home,    um,  without all the distractions.
And allowed me to process why some of the people  in this area are the way they are  and why they're starting- some of them were becoming a product  of their environment.
It's not necessarily their fault,  a lot of times it's the upbreaking-  the upbringing  and the  disallowance  of the ability to imagine.
You know,  in the  urban areas that are just more of a struggle to be in,  parents are constantly telling  their children,  stop daydreaming,  stop-  you know, stop being- stop playing like it's a fairytale, when it really should be the opposite.
You should  tell your children to daydream all the time.
Tell 'em to pretend  all the time, cause eventually it's gonna be.
The problem is,  we want to force them into another  mindset and so then they grow up as adults,  and it's even worse.
And I- it took me some while to not only  recognize but appreciate it.
And that's what started to slowly  but surely  change my mindset  up until about two years ago.
So,   in Forestville was eight years.
I was just like,  I'm not staying here.
It wasn't until I- I felt trapped  cause my  oldest daughter was in high school and   doing well.
And,  you know, I was like,  I can't rip her from high school.
So I said, well when she gets out I'm going, but then I got one four years behind her, so I'm like, dang.
Okay, when she get done.
And then I have  my son, so.
It's- it- it was a done deal that I'm not  going.
And I have one on the way.
So I'm not going anywhere.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So-  Thank you.
So I'm like, I'm-  we not going anywhere,  so.
And I met my love, and so  yeah.
But even before all that, which I'm glad that even before all that  I had already  become comfortable  in a- in a positive light  of being back home.
Because  you really can't-  I don't recommend people  getting into something if they're not  sound within themselves first.
So,  that worked out  really well, but it took me about a good eight years  before I was like,  this is home and- and there's so much  substance here.
And    I can't allow other people's disposition to determine what a- you know, how I'm feeling about where I'm from  and where I'm at.
Cause there's so- that's a small group  when you look at the masses.
There's so m- many opportunities  right here.
Have remind myself people travel the world  to come here.
People travel the world, they can tell me more about my city than I can, because all I can tell them about is the bricks.
I can't tell them about  the museums and the- the other exhibits and things when I should be able to,  you know.
You know, my family in DR they're like, oh you- you go visit la casa blanca?
No.
What do you mean?
They're like-   I'm like, w-  what makes you think- But I should.
You know, so  all of these luxuries I have right here.
People have spent big money to come way over here for it.
So.
Only because of work.
Not because-  And I need to,  which I should, because   my, um,  fiance is from Washington state.
Small, small, teeny town called Steptoe,  Washington.
And he is super white  and we super opposite which is so funny.
Um,  he teaches me so much because I'm like, what do you mean,  what is sun tea?
I thought that was a brand, it's like, you actually put it in the sun and make tea, I didn't know.
So,  I'm like- he's like, how you make tea on the stove.
So,  his- um,  he will give me a good excuse  to really  go out  and tour and see things but  little will he know, I'm learning too.
And I'm from here.
But that's just- that's the luxuries that  we-  I think we take advantage of.
There's so much history here  in Maryland, Virginia, and DC.
So much  history back to the seventeen hundreds  that- um, and I love history,  that, uh, is right here in your- in our backyard, like  right here.
We got people that come from China to see this.
We know cause they won't get out the street.
On purpose because you- why are you walking in the street   like this   with a camera?
What are you taking pictures of the clouds for?
You got clouds in China?
Like what y'all doing?
Just crazy.
So, um, but it's- it's just-  it's a beautiful thing, so.
I appreciate home  now.
Now when I go places I appreciate those places and I come back and appreciate home.
Period.
So yeah.
Uh-huh.
I won't leave.
Mm-hm.
She's in Fort Washington.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
But she closer to- to the Waldorf side because she's on two ten.
Yeah, she's on- but she's on RD-ADDRESS-5 so she's closer to just keep it on two ten, two twenty-eight right there.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
No.
No, I don't even like to fight.
I had to fight growing up.
But, um,  I just don't-  no.
I never felt like that, not even being in the military, not even being  in, um, war zones.
I just didn't feel like it.
It's like, you have a job to do and get it done, get out of here.
Like I didn't really feel like it.
I mean, I had friends that felt that way.
And, uh, you just want them to snap out of it like  we got something to do, you know.
Um,  I'm trying to think.
No.
I've probably only been in two car accidents my entire life.
Never felt like it then I just wanted to be like, I hope they got insurance, but I never felt like it then.
Um, I felt like  people around me  was about to die.
Because they sitting in a burning car  and didn't get out.
And I'm like, they gonna die.
So I felt like that.
But I- but that was older  and I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that   I worked around a lot of dead people.
And I worked arou- a lot around that environment and you  couldn't really have any emotion.
You really couldn't cause you would just go crazy.
And the people who did didn't last, not even a month.
They would go crazy, and it's understandable.
You see everything.
It's not all pretty and clean like,  old people having a heart attack.
It's  people flat like a pancake.
And you're expected to bring them back,  m- like, make 'em look good to  be seen with their family.
And it's- then I have to be the one saying, but do you guys have a picture?
Cause that's what you're gonna need.
You gonna need a picture.
Yeah.
Mm.
The world.
Well we used to have a guy, he's- he's passed away now, um, he was a civilian that actually ran the mortuary, Mr.
RD-NAME-3.
Uh, really feisty Italian man, I loved him.
Um, he really- he's like such a super  patriot.
He- um,  you know, he's like, these are American soldiers, we need to try to  make them look good so their families can see them one last time.
So he would try everything, I mean, you could just be like, flat like a pancake and he would try  to do everything to work with our,   uh, structural department, I did reconstructions,  to get them back looking decent.
But there was lots of times we could not, like when the USS, um,  Cole  got blown up, the Navy ship.
Um,  nothing you can do with them,  some of them, most of them.
Um, lot of victims coming back from Pentagon, nine eleven, stuff like that,    nothing you can really do with them.
Um,  so we would be like, Mr.
RD-NAME-3, there's nothing we can do with them.
And he would just be so upset, but he knew that it was-  it was nothing you could really do.
So then it would be my job to  talk to the families.
And, um,  obviously they know what happened already,  but to let them know that we're not gonna be able to have open casket, do you have a picture?
You know, and of course they're  boohoo crying, but  I just wanted to know do you have a picture.
Cause we need to  put your package together.
But then y'all can go finish  boohoo crying  over there.
Of every- everything Yeah.
Everything.
Yeah.
Definitely love DC culture.
Even though I was like,  ugh, no  for a while.
Um, but definitely.
I mean, cause even when I was away,  where you from?
DC.
Proudly.
Come back home and was like,  I need   or whatever, so it was just   so-  Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I hate-  No.
First of all, I can only listen to go go music for five minutes, and that's how long the song should be.
No longer than five minutes.
Okay, I would be like,  I'm tired.
Okay this has been gym  time, so.
I like- I don't like today's go go.
I don't listen to today's go go at all,  unless it's like,  Rare Essence,  um,  Groovers.
Groovers to me is still  a newer-  Cause Rare Essence and  EU,  and who else?
I'm missing one.
Backyard, Rare Essence, EU,  there's one more.
That's Groovers.
Um, Those three are like,  the original  battle bands to me.
And then Groovers came  right after, and then all these  other ones and I'm like, I c- I quit.
But, um,    yeah, I like Pleasure, the all girl band  when they was around.
You remember Pleasure?
Remember when- Yes cause they went on to tour with Salt-n-Pepa, they became Salt-n-Pepa's all-girl band.
Pleasure was DC's all-girl band.
Oh my god,  they was some trail blazers.
Then another girl band came out, we was like, sit down.
Pleasure was  the all-girl band.
And then they went on to- um,  Salt-n-Pepa picked them up.
And you know the, um,  Shake Your Thang, that was EU.
Um,     Express Yourself by Salt-n-Pepa, that's Pleasure.
That's what I say, we got a all-girl band, that's- that's Pleasure and- playing for them.
And, um,   it was another  song, but they went on to be with Salt-n-Pepa.
Um, and then they broke up.
But- um,  so Pleasure.
And- but today's go go?
Mm-mm.
No, who did Work the Walls?
Was that Rare Essence?
Anyway.
Oh yeah, I did.
My mother stopped letting me go, though.
I was getting in trouble, so  I couldn't go.
Yeah, I couldn't go no more.
No,  not really.
I was- yeah, I was like everywhere.
Everybody knew our family, like all over.
So we were like, everywhere.
I didn't really get into like, rep- I couldn't.
I mean,  What I'm'a do Simple City, Simple City and Eastgate beef, but I be around both areas   all the time, so.
Yeah.
Do I eat mumbo sauce is a better question, yeah.
Oh my gosh, so now mumbo sauce, it used to be just a DC thing, but Chicago will argue.
But it used to be just a DC thing.
Um,  but  it definitely branched out into PG  even way back  when I was a little kid.
But now, Waldorf  comes to me, everything's right there.
Um,  Saint Mary's by far does not have mumbo sauce.
Okay, they- I asked them for mumbo sauce, they gave me ketchup.
I looked at it, I said this pretty dark.
I was like, mm I don't need ketchup.
So yeah, they- they don't know about it.
So I would say,  Charles County is the furthest.
Baltimore,  they don't really know what you're talking about.
Um,  we don't claim Baltimore by the way.
You know that  about us?
Oh, Maryland, like PG County.
All the counties  other than Baltimore don't claim Baltimore.
We just don't, it's like we don't even like Bal-    I don't know, it's a thing.
First of all, DC s- like, straight DC does not claim Baltimore at all.
Like it's like,   they don't ever get along.
But, um,   I don't know, it's just a thing, like we like, mm-mm.
People like,  Baltimore, Maryland, no just Baltimore, Baltimore, we don't claim the  step children    at all.
Mm-hm.
So yeah, definitely eat mumbo sauce.
Mm-hm.
So I often wonder, I'm like, are they like-  are- are they like,  shipping people to another planet?
Like, what are we doing with the people?
Cause even where I grew up on Seventh  well in Capers is the- the-  the, um, projects.
Those are not there  anymore.
They're torn down, so you know- you- you know where Seventh in Capers is?
Seventh and Arthur Street.
So,  if y- if you're going down-  if you gonna go to, um,  the wharf for example, where it used to be Phillips,    you- you can go that way  to get there.
Um,   that's not there anymore.
There all these nice little  high rises.
But my question is  Where'd you- where you put the people?
Because all those are rentals.
Like those the- they're not like- you can like, pay them, you know,  to be like,  let me pay these people for their-  for their property, cause that's what they  usually do with the houses, but.
People are renting there.
S- and most of 'em on fixed,  you know, income and- and government  support, so.
I'm like, what are you doing with the people?
So I guess they're like-  they closing them down and then  go wherever you go, and then people start trying to filter out  wherever.
But,  I often wonder like,  as the,  um,  builders and the government,  mostly,  are making these changes, like what is their plan for the  people?
And what is their plan to  save the culture  of this place?
I don't really think  that's a factor to them because it's more about the money.
It's more about making it look  very, uh,  pleasurable on the eye for their investors  that come in,  and the people they have flying in.
Like,  The whole National Stadium area is  totally different, you know.
And I'm all for change in terms of making things better and beautifying, beautification projects,  But,  I'm like, at the expense of what?
So that's my-  my question mark.
Um, well, I didn't even know it was a Boys and Girls Club.
We talked about that with like, some of the other people.
I was like, I'm going to the ARC.
Like  I didn't even know  that that was the Boys and Girls Club.
Um,    I-  we were just kids playing, it was somewhere to go.
You know, you go down Minnesota,  and you  get your sour pickle, you get your steak and cheese and your-  and your, um, fried rice,  and you eat that while you walking on the way  down there.
And you just-  It was just like a big social  whatever but you felt very safe.
Extremely safe.
But I would also have to say I felt more safe  in the city than I did  going  to the  suburban places.
I don't know why, but  I did.
I felt way more safe.
It was noise, it was people all the time,  you know.
That's off track.
But  the Boys and Girls-  I'll get- I'll go back to that.
The Boys and Girls Club then it was just    so welcoming.
So,  now that I'm here,  it makes so much more sense  why it was so open.
And, you know, it was more, um-  All the DC and- and PG clubs  are  grant funded pretty much.
Whereas like,  Virginia is probably program funded cause the parents have the money to really pay,  you know, a- a- um, membership.
Whereas we do not.
Um, but because of that,  there was no strings.
I can only imagine if I was that age going to  clubs that were program funded.
It's like, excuse me,  do you have a-  What are you doing here?
And, you know, cause they have to, cause you got people paying to be here.
Whereas,  the club was just- it was like open arms.
I mean, it was very  welcome.
Even to the point I didn't even know  that-  but I don't think they did branding very well  back then.
But I didn't even know.
I thought,  we going to the ARC.
That's what it was, it was the ARC,  period.
So when I interviewed,  and we talked about it, even then, I said    I was about  probably my mid-twenties, and that's when I-  I went back there for something.
And, um,   I remember saying-  And at that time I was like,  oh, Boys and Girls Club took over?
Been here the whole time.
Uh, but I was telling, uh,  RD-NAME-3 I was like, yeah,    that's when I first realized it was the Boys and Girls Club.
All that time.
Nope.
Didn't know it,  And then it's a pros and cons to that.
You know, con is, oh,  you not branding well but that's the business side.
But as a kid,  you didn't know it because  there was no stipulations.
There was-  It was very open and free and  you felt very welcome.
It wasn't like-   it wasn't controlling environments where a kid can really be a kid, basically.
I did.
Yeah.
Well, I guess me working in government  my entire life and working  around sensitive information, I often  would not-  I don't believe  what's put out in census and what's put out in statistics because  it's man made.
So I don't-  Half the stuff is put out for a reason.
Um,   it's- there's always an agenda.
I wouldn't be surprised that's say that so people would be more-  more comfortable to move so we can build up.
Whatever.
But, um,  uh,  I felt more safe.
The statistics in my family  from real people with their mouth,  they felt more safe in the city.
When I moved to Waldorf where,  you know, for my kids,  um,  in theory  it's safer,  Late at night,  I'm constantly looking out the window,  checking the door.
Cause I don't hear anything, it's so quiet.
I'm like, what's going on?
What's going on around here?
You know,  it's so quiet and you hear every little thing.
In the city,   it's noisy, it's like-  it's always people around and it's always  just busy, so,  I feel safe.
It's like well,  who's gonna break in right here?
People walking  they gonna see it, and  who's gonna do  whatever?
You just feel- it- you just felt so much- I guess it's more eyes  on you, whatever.
You kind of felt more safe.
Whereas in other- in- Waldorf kind of country and it's quiet and people are in their houses and  somebody could do something, nobody would even see it.
That's kind of what my- my thought pattern was.
But, um,  I would not raise my kids where I l- where I grew up.
So I don't feel that safe.
But I- I wouldn't raise them   where I grew up.
I would be one of those people that would purchase like,  at the Ritz  Georgetown, or something like that.
Because once you have children, the mentality is just different.
You want better  for them.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No, not until a hundred percent of the area is changing.
Because if you notice, so,  they've changed- they're putting new condos over here,  but you still got all this going on up the street right here.
So- where you think- the people where you taking their jobs,  where you think they gonna come rob from?
So they're- wa- it's a d- it's a walk away.
So no.
I think it  creates more havoc because  you literally putting the candy  in front of the kids  right on the counter.
It's like r- literally around the corner.
So this almost goes back to  when my mom moved to Fort Washington, Potomac, you know, it was really estate-y type,  um, complex.
You go into the- you don't even think that it's  where she is cause it's so rich-y and stuff, like.
Soon as you turn out the neighborhood and go left or right,    what's over there?
What is that neighborhood?
Glass Manor  is right there.
Um,  this little,  uh, hood neighborhoods right here.
It's like literally within walking distance.
So I say that to say,  a lot of the houses,  thank god not hers, have always getting breaking- broken into.
All the time.
Cause it's like you  put these- you build up these nice rich neighborhood with these affluent people  are gonna be there  but you-  you leave the surrounding areas the same and then take their jobs.
How they gonna survive?
So,  no I wouldn't.
I'm just not that stupid.
I'd rather be in a place where everybody  is pretty much the same.
They're- they- they don't need to steal from you.
They're working class people.
They'll- they- No.
So like you not gonna go to the Hamptons and have that problem.
The Hamptons,  everything is-   Yeah, there's a certain class that's over there.
Uh, both.
I think it's both.
Um,  cause both of them like, kind of coexist  together.
Some of the classes think that only a particular race  can be one thing and vice versa.
Um,  I think when it comes to  the race issue,  the stereotype is that all white people are racist.
That's a stereotype which is  not true.
I was just having this conversation with my ten year old  last night.
And these are the conversations my kids have.
Kind of like  me growing up.
Um,   the stereotype is that  all white people are racist, all black people are thugs and  angry and  violent.
Um,  and then you have inter racism, you have  race on race racism, you got black people that are,  you too dark,  you too light,  you too this.
That's the issue.
And then it's- for- for my family it's on both.
It's like it's Spanish people,  all the Dominicans  who-  I always gotta constantly tell some of  my cousins  who are like in DR.
Um,  some are much older,  like a older  group.
Because they went through so much their mentality is so warped.
I'm like, let me explain to you, you are a black person who speaks Spanish, okay?
Your oppressor  raped our people and that's why you speak Spanish, kay?
Learn your history.
Don't think you  not black.
Spanish is a culture,  okay?
Latino is a culture, not a race.
So,  I'm like,  you are black  and you speak Spanish.
Like, that's it.
Um, they wanna try to separate themselves like,  oh no we-  we're not black, we Spanish.
We need to DNA on you?
You need DNA?
Like,  where you think you get your melanin from?
Where you think you get it from?
Like,  you  are  African.
Okay?
So, um,   that whole thing.
So I think- And then you have those classes there.
You know you got like,  oh, well you dark, so  you not from here.
It's like, I wouldn't be considered dark in DR.
But like,    I don't know who here.
You would be borderline.
I'm trying to think who here.
I don't know.
RD-NAME-2 for example.
He could be like, as Dominican as they come   and he would be considered,  oh, he's dark.
And you have like,  the  Jessica Alba looking Dominicans, white looking Dominicans and they're like- they're like they're better.
And it's like,   No.
Your skin literally does not make-   You don't come off smarter,  you don't come off brighter, you don't come off dumber,  you know.
So- um,    but- I'm- I'm off track but,  I think that the two coexist.
The racism,  and the classism, I think they both  coexist.
And  it is all about the upbringing, you know.
Some of the white people that think they're better is because they was taught they were better.
Now that could be a good and a bad thing.
If we taught our kids they was better,  you know, look at- look at how much of a difference that could make.
So,  they was taught  that they were better,  now there's a way you teach- You don't teach your kids you're better and these people are nothing.
That's where the-  the break down is.
But  if we taught our kids  to be better,  and that they are better than,  not better than someone but better than  your stereotypes, better than  your environment, better than your neighborhood, better than,  you know, all these things around you.
You are better.
It can- they would go so much further.
That's how- what I was taught growing up.
So.
Yes, exactly.