Uh, I think-  It's- it's- uh- it's- it's just pretty much bands, uh, playing,  um, songs.
Like hit songs, but they make their own version of it.
Or  they might have their own song that they created theirself  And, um- Um,  what was the question again?
Oh yeah yeah yeah.
Go go music, um,  it's just b- different bands, um,  doing their variation of songs that's out today that's-  or out at the time that they made the song.
They make their own songs too.
Um,  but it's just- it's unique  in th- in a sense of,  uh,  just how they play the songs, like,  like and- and how it ele- uh-  Like how it- how it just change from-  Like me growing up, it was like a pocket beat.
Like,  uh, like the older guys they always like to used to listen to like  bands like Junkyard Band, or Rare Essence.
They had like the pocket beat.
But my era go go,  we had like the slow bounce.
You know what I mean?
So it's like a different- different styles  of music.
Like it's slowing it down,  chopping the song up.
Like,  and- and making it a little slower and then speeding it back up so it's like a fast pace, slow,  fast pace, slow type-  s- type feel in like, my era of go go.
Um,  but yeah, it's- it's- it's tight, though.
I like go go music.
It's  drums,  guitar,  bass.
It's just different instruments,  um,  and just showing that- you know what I'm saying?
Young black kids can do other things  and it's- it's like- it's like going and supporting  like, us, you know what I mean?
And it's- it's tight  to go and be able to do that.
Like, musicians, the people that  we know and grew up with, or,  you know what I mean?
Cause everybody at one time was starting a band.
Every neighborhood had a band.
You know, everybody wanted to have a band, so  you know what I mean?
It's- it's- it's just tight to be able to see different people playing different instruments,  you know what I mean?
That you can relate to.
And it's like, they local celebrities.
Like they- they s- they, to us,  you know what I mean?
They celebrities cause the- the type music they play,  so.
And- For me- for me, what I listen to in the- in the, uh,  in go go is the drums.
Uh, maybe the bass.
And, um,  the- I- I think the drums cause you can-  you can really- they- you can really get off on the drums.
Like they- if the drummer tight,  he can really like, carry the show.
But I mean for somebody else, they might listen to it and  only hear the timbales or- or  the congos, you know what I mean?
Some- some people but I- For me, I like to hear the drum- the drums, though.
Yeah I- I tried, but I- I- I- my rhythm,  I couldn't really keep- I couldn't keep going with it.
I couldn't keep up.
Like I- my cousin, he was good at it though.
He could play the drums, but I- I don't know, my rhythm was just off or something.
I ain't never really good- I- I played the trumpet though.
Growing up I played the trumpet but  I ain't never really was good at no drums.
Hand eye coordination gotta be good.
You gotta be able to  get a beat .
I never really like invested in it.
Uh- Uh, growing up I went to, uh, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3  Elementary School.
Um, that was on  Alabama Avenue.
I went there for like, a Pre-K  until one, to first grade, then I went to RD-SCHOOL-1  Elementary School.
I believe that's like, on Mississippi Avenue.
That's in Southeast too.
And then from there I moved out to, uh,  PG County.
And, um,  went to RD-SCHOOL-7 Forestville  And then I camed up in Marlboro and went to, uh,  RD-SCHOOL-2 and RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um, but I played- I played, uh, trumpet when I was in, um, elementary school  from like fourth grade  to- No, third grade to sixth grade.
I was in a, um, the band.
Yeah.
Uh, mumbo sauce is like, a, um-  It's just DC's own like,  I w- It's their own condiment.
And mumbo sauce can, uh,  come in a bottle, I'm sure  everybody'll buy it in a bottle.
But it's like, you go to the carry out and, uh, get you some- some chicken.
And put the mumbo sauce on there.
To be honest with you, I don't even know what's in mumbo sauce but it's just the taste,  and it's different-  it's different styles of mumbo sauce in the area, too.
Like different places make better mumbo sauce than other ones.
You know, so,  um,  but it's just-  it's just like the- it's the condiment of DC pretty much.
Like,  that's what you go to the carry out.
You can put mumbo sauce.
Some people put it all over their fries,  all over their chicken.
Mumbo sauce on everything.
So  it's just- it's just DC's condiment.
Um,  I think it's- Uh, not- I mean I try but like I think it's like vinegar,  uh,  ketchup,  a, um,  a little bit of hot sauce,  and like a sweet and sour sauce.
So they might use like pineapple juice or-  or something like that.
But it- it got like a- Yeah it's like-  Yeah, so it's like a, um, it's like a sweet, tangy little sauce.
It's- it's good though.
It's good.
Some of 'em  might have a little spice to 'em, different places you might go to, but for the most part,  it's, uh,  yeah.
It's- it's sweet- sweet, tangy.