I was born in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
I moved here  two years after being born.
Yes.
Sixteen.
Yes.
I claim Forestville, Maryland.
I lived over by the FedEx field for about six months.
I go to RD-SCHOOL-8.
Yes ma'am.
My dad was born in Fort Lauderdale, Florida but my mom was born in DC,  Southeast.
My mom-  I don't actually know what they do.
My mom works in the basement of a big engineering company.
And my dad  he's currently working with Uber right now looking for a job.
They  attended the first two years.
UDC.
Yes ma'am.
I live in a house.
Not yet.
Yes.
Thir- mm, uh, yeah, thirteen years.
Yes.
Uh, it is not big but  it's  perfect size for my family, family of five.
Uh,  you got the main floor then you got the basement, that's where my parents stay.
It's me and my two sisters,  and we stay on the top floor.
We all have our own rooms.
Kitchen,  den in the back, that's where we have  our TV.
That's where we have one of the main TVs and the other main TV is in the living room.
Yeah.
Uh, when the little kid-  my neighbor's  kids weren't there all the time, so whenever they were there we would play all the time, all day long.
But when they weren't there, we- I would probably be in the house playing with my sisters.
Yes.
Uh, I am sixteen, my sister's two years younger than me, she is fourteen right now.
My youngest sister is ten,  and my neighbors  that we used to play with, I was the oldest out of the whole group, but the other one was fifteen  thirteen,  ten, and  eight I believe.
They were all two years apart.
Yeah.
We would play hide and seek, tag.
If they had their bikes over there we would ride our bikes for about a good two hours.
And then we would go in our backyard and we would play dodgeball with a little soccer ball that we had.
And then like, if we start-  got tired of throwing the ball we would start playing soccer.
Uh, if you got hit-  Well, we played with  everybody in the middle,  one person on each side.
And if you got hit you were out.
Somebody caught it, you got back in.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Yeah.
Uh, not as much  I would say because they moved away.
So they come-  they came  a l-  they came often when they were younger but now they don't come as often.
But when they do come they'll still play like, basketball or something.
But nowadays I'm just in my room  or watching YouTube videos or just playing my video games.
Uh, I started when I was around four-ish.
And my dad was- just wanted me to do something.
So we found this-  I'm not allowed to say Boys and Girls Club cause it's not the Boys and Girls Club claimed by RD-NAME-2 but,  it was a b- uh, Forestville Boys and Girls Club  and I started off playing flag football.
And I did flag football for two years then I was able to play contact football,  which I believe was  mighty mites.
And from that, I believe two-thousand five and on I've been playing football.
And s-  other sports just started to fall in after that.
Cause Forestville offered football, basketball, baseball, and cheerleading.
I did cheerleading for about two months.
Uh, I got made fun of a lot but like it was fun to do.
I realized I was more flexible than I thought I was.
That's how I learned how to- that's how- that's where they taught me how to do different types of flips that I could do now.
Uh, I just wanted-  I just wanted to be in the Club all the time.
So like,  I wanted to see everybody's perspective on- see like what the girls were seeing on the sideline as well as being a football player  on the field as well.
Alright.
Elementary school.
I've been going to this-  Elementary school ranges from  first to fifth right?
Kindergart- Well I've been going to the same elementary school,  and that was the same school I graduated from in eighth grade, and that's RD-SCHOOL-13  in Southeast DC.
I was  going there cause of my friend who was on the football team with me.
His mom introduced that school to my dad,  and  that was pretty much it.
That's-  that school has  somewhat formed me into the  more formal person that I am  and my  m-  more respectful side  if anything.
Cause like,  I don't wanna knock public school,  but like,  if I was at a public school I don't think I would have the  n- same level of respect that I do now for adults.
Cause the adults at that school really  wanted us to have respect  for our older people.
Not older people, but adults per se.
And just have respect in general.
How to be  clean, how to  clean up after yourself,  how to not be rude and interrupt sentences and stuff like that.
And I don't think I woulda got that at like a public school if anything.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Uh, the teachers, it was a lot of discipline I would say.
Especially when I got into high school and realized that  not everybody walks in a straight line all the time.
Uh, it was the discipline and just the fact that they respected us as well.
So like, to  get respect you have to  give respect.
And that's a motto that I live by all the time.
And the fact that they gave us respect just made me know that I have to give them respect as well.
Uh, it was my Spanish teacher, because he went to school with my mom.
Cause she went to RD-SCHOOL-3 as well.
More because my neighbor if anything.
Cause I think  she didn't have that school in mind cause it was-  I'm not calling her old but it was a long time ago.
So I don't think she really had that school in mind until my neighbor brought it up.
Uh, my dad  if anything.
Uh,  they bought a house together in Surrey Square.
That's when they first moved in together, they bought a house in Surrey Square which is in Forestville.
So I think that's how they  really got over to Forestville.
My dad-  the reason my dad was in DC was because he got a football scholarship to UDC.
And they met at a party.
And they been talking ever since.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
He football and wrestling.
He-  I haven't seen video,  but  he  claims he was great and he got a scholarship for it.
I haven't seen video yet,  so I just have to go by his word.
But he has shown me a picture of him having a record  for the fastest pin in wrestling which was eight seconds.
Think he was heavyweight.
He's been a pretty hefty dude.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Uh, my freshman year I went to RD-SCHOOL-8,  which was-  it was a big change cause  the work loads.
I got a lot of work in the eighth grade year cause my teacher wanted us to be prepared.
But at the same time I didn't have as much freedom as I did in high school.
Cause  when I was going to RD-SCHOOL-4  it's like up the street from me so I was biking to and fro back to school.
And I would get home before my parents all the time and have like a  two hour break  with nobody in the house.
And like,  I never had that much freedom in my life.
And I abused it  drastically.
so like,  grades were slipping off and stuff like that.
Cause then work loads weren't  as big as in eighth grade but it was still a lot of work.
And the fact that you had A and B day schedules.
So like,  I wouldn't do my A day homework the day it was assigned I would do it  the day right before it's assigned.
And  I had to stop the habit of doing that.
And it- when I stopped that habit it was fourth quarter already.
Uh, whenever I would- During the time of freshman year it was this great show that came out which is called Flash.
And like,  we not allowed to watch TV during the week  but I was home two hours before everybody else got in the house, so I would come in the house  and just watch Flash episodes that I missed.
And then just binge watch YouTube videos and just other videos like that.
Yeah.
My grades got cau- like grades were slipping.
I brought it- No,  okay, so it was first and second quarter.
And then springtime came around and lacrosse season was coming up,  and they told me that I needed a three point O to be on the team,  so I was like,  alright cool and now I gotta get my grades up.
Uh, I got a three point two then I finished the school year with a three point six.
Mm-mm.
Not at all.
Uh, it was actually a random day.
My dad came in my room and was like,  hey this coach just called, do you wanna play lacrosse?
And  I'd never heard of lacrosse,  and I was like,  that sounds interesting.
Let's go play lacrosse.
So it was two weeks that went past,  and he-  in my room I found a stick,  cleats, and a ball.
And they gave me all the equipment  the day I showed up to the game.
Cause, mind you, I'd never had practice,  and the first time I went out to the field it was a game.
And  I found that really weird  if that's how you bring people in to play a sport.
But when I stepped out on the field,  I reali-  I- w- uh, back f- back track.
I've always been the slowest person when I played football, cause I was always a lineman.
So I was always slow.
But when I got out on the lacrosse field, I found out  I was the fastest out there.
And they called me wheels.
And I never-  I didn't even realize I was running fast til I  turned around and saw people behind me.
I was like,  oh this might be my sport.
And  it's hard to get a shot on goal,  but that game I had three shots alone on goal.
Granted I missed all of 'em cause my first game, but.
I had three shots on goal and I really didn't know what I was doing.
But after like, a couple days of practice,  uh, I did-  I was doing great.
Mm-hm,  very good.
I got a scholarship to go to RD-SCHOOL-4 to play lacrosse actually.
Uh, no, my freshman year I got a scholarship.
Mm-hm, yeah.
Uh, grades and money at RD-SCHOOL-4.
My grades were too low and money was rising, so  it was either RD-SCHOOL-1 or RD-SCHOOL-2.
And RD-SCHOOL-2 has a  worse track record than, uh, RD-SCHOOL-1 does.
I do like the school,  it's just a lot of people.
RD-SCHOOL-1 is a really big school.
Uh,  my graduating class is about  seven hundred deep.
Yeah.
Yeah, three thousand plus.
Mm-hm.
Racial?
Uh, I think  there's more male th- I think it's for every,  uh,  three males  it's a female.
So more males than females.
But I think the teacher to student ratio is  s- every  thirty, forty students it's one teacher.
My social studies class is forty deep right now.
World history.
Uh, it- it's more blacks.
Uh, not to s-  its- you can count the number of white people on your hand at RD-SCHOOL-1 I would say.
It's a lot of Mexicans and blacks.
It's a lot of minorities  if anything at RD-SCHOOL-1.
Yes I do.
Cause I'm able to focus  and when I really need the help I'll aks my teachers for help.
Cause they appreciate it  cause  it's a lot of kids to really focus on, so the fact that kids come up to them and aks for help, it really helps them for real.
Uh,  I really wanna take a gap year so I could work  so I could at least get some money to get through college.
But if I  manage to get a lacrosse scholarship,  I wanna get that lacrosse scholarship and go and get sports medicine  so I could be a personal trainer or fitness trainer.
And then eventually open up my own fitness gym.
Uh, Miami University.
Florida.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
They have a great medical program.
I haven't been up there but I've read a lot about it.
Right.
No, not at all.
I would-  my parents laugh at me when I say we're-  we're a great middle class family cause  we're on the border of lower class and middle class.
Like,  There's the line and we're right at the line of meet and middle class.
So we've never wanted for anything.
Cause again,  I went to private school for nine, ten years of my life.
And my sisters  were in private school with me until they found RD-SCHOOL-5.
RD-SCHOOL-6 I mean.
Uh, my-  uh, I think that was my seventh grade year  when they found  RD-SCHOOL-6, but other than that we was all attending private high school- not high school,  we was all attending private school at the same time,  which was about  a thou- not a thousand.
it was f- six hundred each for each of us.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And then I had went over to RD-SCHOOL-4 which was almost a thousand a month without that scholar-  Without that scholarship it woulda been like  twelve hundred a month.
Cause like we'ves never wanted for anything, we have  multiple-  a surplus of electronics in the house.
I have my own iPad, my  sisters both have their own tablets.
Mind you, we've been through like,  several tablets over the years.
So like, we've never really wanted for anything.
Each Christmas,  like,  kids complain about how they have very little things for Christmas that like- that's never been a problem for u-  for us in the house, for real.
Mm-hm.
Absolutely.
Right.
Alright.
Right.
Mm-hm.
I do.
Uh, it's  not complicated  but I met her I met her my freshman year at RD-SCHOOL-4  but then I went over to RD-SCHOOL-1.
And we didn't really talk.
At-  back track.
We went to the same school freshman year.
But I didn't really start talking to her until like,  my tenth- like,  second quarter of my tenth grade year.
And  when I wanted to meet her it came to realize that  she moved.
I was like, alright cool she don't go to RD-SCHOOL-4 any more.
I could probably still visit her  during the weekends.
She moved  across country.
F- Washington state.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh, so we're making that work right now, she's actually coming down for  Christmas.
Not-  she's not coming to my Christmas, but she's coming down for the week-  for the holiday season.
So we have planned a date  for that.
RD-NAME-2.
She is.
Absolutely.
Right.
Mm-hm.
I find it funny, people thought I was joking when I  talk about it but  I think third and fourth quarter  I  didn't get any sleep.
Cause Washington, they're three hours behind.
So like,  I'll get on Facetime around like ten o'clock my time,  and then not go to sleep til twelve o'clock her time.
And that was like, a daily thing that I- w- that we did.
And  I didn't realize what that was doing to my body,  until like the lacrosse season came and I went to go work out,  and my body did not  wanna work out at all.
But  we made it work out.
I got-  she made me go to bed at twelve o'clock my time.
Uh, six.
My dad  actually found the club.
I think somebody announced the  release of th- not the release, the opening of a new gym at a barbershop that he was going to.
And he f- wanted to see the new gym.
So we came to the grand opening of the new gym,  and we been coming here ever since.
Uh, I believe  two-thousand thirteen.
No.
I take that back.
That's when we started coming to the summer camp.
I've been coming to the Club since two-thousand twelve cause that was RD-NAME-2 first year.
And I just wanted to be at the Club, that's all.
My dad found it, he was like,  alright we gonna put you here  for after school  just because.
The people.
And we have great  topics of conversation  The bus ride  to go home is always great.
The gym,  the perfect  craft.
Like,  one day I'm'a bring my lacrosse stick here and just practice for like,  two hours straight.
I haven't been able to do that yet  but  it's gonna happen.
The resources that we have here, like the computers to get homework done is  always great to do.
And just like, the mentors here, like when you need to vent to somebody,  like, they're always here to listen.
That's pretty much it.
Ah, I gotta pick one?
Mm,  okay three.
Uh, my number one all time favorite is when I joined the leader's program with  RD-NAME-5.
Uh,  when he started his leadership program in two-thousand thirteen,  that was the first program I started doing at the Boys and Girls Club and it has helped mold me into the person that I am today with all the leadership qualities that I have.
And just  being able to perfect my public speaking skill as well.
That's my first memory.
My second memory is  mm,  going- being able to ha-  being the oppor-  given the opportunity to travel to New York.
That was a great one as well, for the, uh,  think that was our second-  yeah that was our second Our Lives Matter teen campaign movement.
that was our first one out of state though.
And it was a great  experience cause I never been to New York.
Excuse me.
I never been to New York but like, being able to go out there for the first time, it was great.
It was different  scenery.
I didn't know it was gonna be so  cold up there.
So I didn't bring  like, a  big enough jacket, all I brought was a sweat jacket.
Bad move on my part,  but  made it work.
And my third favorite memory  is the Birmingham trip that we just had recently.
Cause whenever we get-  whenever I get the opportunity to s- travel out of state I'm gonna take that opportunity.
And just being able to go to Birmingham,  which was-  I've been pretty much all on the East Coast, but that was a whole nother time zone for me,  which was  just a great experience in all.
Uh,  The heat,   stop.
Uh,  uh, when I first got out there I was with my church group RD-CHURCH-4.
And we were just doing s-  community service which  I really love to do.
And being able to do community service in a whole other state  was just  great for me.
And then,  after that week-  not-  after the five days I was there,  the Boys and Girls Club came out so we could do our teen campaign  which was  an-  another great thing to see all the young people come out to the church.
Just be able to vent or talk about their problems,  what's going on in society, especially what we h-  the person we have in office.
President Trump,  he's great.
Uh, anyway,  just being able to vent about stuff like that,  it was just great to see young people out there.
I think this one dude his name was James or Jacob,  he was  delivering great poetry,  without meaning to deliver great poetry.
The one thing I will never forget about Birmingham, he said  if you're not at the table you're on the menu.
And that-  if you looked around the room as soon as he said that,  you woulda seen everybody's eyes  like lighten up  over the  most-  the smartest thing you woulda ever heard,  and the most inspirational thing you woulda heard  that day.
Uh, slowly just keep moving west.
We went to Birmingham.
I'm not good at geography, so  mind you.
I wanna say Mississippi is right next to Birmingham, so like  let's just keep moving that way.
But slowly make our way up as well.
Like  Birmingham's down here, this- we gonna start down here,  and slowly move up through Mississippi,  think Texas is next.
I'm sorry if I'm butchering this by the way.
But Texas and then slowly move our way up through New Mexico,  and then Nevada then California.
And then just slowly move up.
And then come back around  through, uh,  Washington and then  come back East.
Yeah.
If we get like a big bus then we could probably do that eventually.
Like a tour bus.
Yeah.
I would be gladly to lead that one.
Ugh, that question.
Mm mm.
Uh, DC  is DC.
The capital  of our great nation.
And  it's getting  a bad rep right now  cause of  things happening in politics.
For black males I would say  it is not the greatest place to be right now.
Cause it seems like we're always on the news for doing something wrong,  which I feel like statistically  that shouldn't be possible.
But  it's-  it keeps happening on a daily basis and I feel like  we just need a day where we just  don't cut on the news so we don't have to see this stuff.
But,  I know it's still gonna happen.
And  it just hurts me a little bit actually.
Uh, not  specifically but  it's the fact that we are-  it's a lot of minorities  especially out of DC  in prison right now over petty stuff.
Especially marijuana I would say.
Uh,  granted it is legal, but not le-  is it legal?
Like, completely legal in DC?
Yeah,  and it's people-  it's minorities in jail  for possession of marijuana  gr-  even though it is a legal thing now.
Granted you can only have like  point two ounces on you, but still.
The fact that they're in jail  because of that.
They should get a pardon to get out  because they were arrested before  it was legal.
So the fact that they're serving like,  five to ten  for something  that's legal now,  I just don't-  I can't stand by.
I just don't like it at all.
I'm not one to fight at all, but  I get that you're mad  but I feel like you should be able to speak it out first before leading the violence.
I feel like there are multiple  ways  of getting your opinion across than fighting.
I hate it  a lot.
But  I feel like-  Are we talking about like, police  per se?
Because I feel like- I feel like- I feel like police officers should have like, more training courses  on hand to hand combat  instead of being able to just sh-  fire away.
And the way that they're taught to aim for the chest,  I feel like  they should like not aim at the chest cause that  could potentially  kill them right there.
But  l- teach them how to shoot  with their taser if anything.
Cause  you see on the news a white person being  tased to the ground,  but you'll never see a black person being tased to the ground, they're getting shot  right there,  cause they see them as a threat.
So I feel like,  more training courses on how to use your taser,  and just aim somewhere else other than the chest like maybe a ar- the arm or something.
Cause like,  being shot, that hurts.
Not by experience, but  I know that hurts.
So like, that's gonna stop you from running a little bit.
So aiming for the chest I feel like,  that's a overkill if anything.
I don't think it's from police I think it's just from me being stupid on my part.
It's-    me being stupid  is me-  people say I'm being RD-NAME-2.
And I don't know how to  respond to that  cause  they starting to use it as an adjective.
But  me being stupid is like  me  jumping out of a bounce house and trying to do a backflip  even though I  haven't done a backflip in like  two years.
And almost breaking something.
Or  recently,  I was  tryna  dunk,  but I grabbed the net instead.
Imitated like I was grabbing the rim and I did a whole backflip.
I landed it,  but like,  potentially I could've  broken something.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I feel like  I'm the person  in the-  even though things are dark nowadays, I'm the person that has to be the one to put a smile on everybody's face.
Uh, just with  comedy and just a positive vibe all the time.
Like, whenever I walk in a room people  know that it's gonna-  things are gonna get better cause  I walk in with a smile on my face.
Even if I'm going through something, I won't  take it out on other people  cause I know my responsibility  is to make people laugh.
So I keep a smile on my face  So they could be happy as well.
And then I go in RD-NAME-2's office and vent to him,  and then once my energy is out,  once my negative energy is out,  it's all positive vibes after that.
I feel like my responsibility,  cause no one has really stepped up to that responsibility.
Because  if you walk into a room and somebody's negative,  they feel like it's their responsibility to be negative as well  to make it-  make it seem like,  you should care about me,  and not right- you right now cause I'm dealing with bigger problems than you.
So I feel like,  I should be the one to say,  hey let's not think about our problems right now let's think about all the positive  in life right now, if anything.
Mm-hm.
Those days  don't come  cause I know  I have to be happy, so.
If a day like that  really comes which is like,  a blue moon if anything,  I talk to RD-NAME-2.
Like,  he is my person when I need to vent to somebody.
And venting leave- it r-  either from like five minutes to like a good hour, just me and him talking back and forth.
And once I get all the negative energy out,  like I'm-  we cool after that.
That or my sisters.
Cause, my sisters can always make me laugh,  which  is infuriating but good at the same time.
But  them too.
Uh, cause like  I could come home  and just have-  like, I'll come home and just be tired  and wanna go to sleep.
And then they'll be like,  hey let's go outside and play.
I'm like,  I don't feel like playing.
They be like,  alright for one hour.
I'll be like,  alright I'll play for one hour.
We'll be outside for like,  three or four hours and not even notice it yet.
And like,  being outside with them I just feel like, happy  cause-  I just feel happy at that point after that.
They just make me smile.
Yes I am.
Yes and no.
Eh.
Uh,  I love them to death and I don't think I could spend a long time without them, but at the same time,  they don't know what privacy is.
They like to barge in my room when I'm taking a nap,  or just make loud noises all the time, f- just singing at the top of their lungs for no reason.
Uh, sleepovers.
I'm not-  I don't have a problem with sleepovers whatever like,  when y'all taking up the TV when I could be playing my game, and y'all not even watching the TV,  that's annoying as well.
But other than that,  eh.
I play Overwatch.
Uh, Xbox One.
Uh,  game came out in two-thousand fifteen, I think it was December two-thousand fifteen.
And in two-thousand sixteen, in December two-thousand sixteen it got game of the year.
And I think it's about to get game of the year in two-thousand seventeen.
It is one of the most balanced games you will ever see or ever play  in today's  gaming world per se.
Cause  there are like,  thirty characters.
And  each of the characters  are great in their own way, but they all have a counter  which is great for a team.
Cause you always have to go with a team of six against another team of six.
And you either have to escort a payload from one point to a next,  or its either capture the flag.
Or you could- uh,  if you're gifted enough to play on PC you could, uh,  call up your friends and y'all could play as a team against other people as well.
Overwatch.
Uh, it's a first person shooter Mm-hm.
Uh.
Right.
The Witcher?
Mm-mm.
Open world?
Mm.
Mm.
For real?
Super Ninten-  I've played- I've played all those systems,  and  being able to play  each system and realizing the evolution was-  is great.
And the game mechanics as well.
I would like to  add on to my-  add on to my answer.
Other than Overwatch-  before I started playing Overwatch which was  I believe-  September first is when I made my  Xbox Live account, that's when I started playing the Overwatch.
But before that,  the only thing you would see in my Xbox was Lego games.
And  that too was another stress reliever,  cause  Lego games are just fun.
They're  adorable,  and funny,  and like, you can't get mad at a Lego game.
I've played  all the Star Wars Lego games,  and the Harry Potter Lego games,  and I'm going through all the super hero Lego games now.
I just beat  the Marvel one  and Lego Batman two, I'm beating Lego Batman three as we speak.
Uh, Lego game,  mm,  it takes  the concept of great movies as in Star Wars or Harry Potter  and puts their story into the game,  it then adds a creative vibe to it.
As of-  instead of Harry living under the stairs,  he's living under the stairs  with his pet cupcake.
Or something like that.
And like  being able to like  play those games like that.
And then once you beat the game,  you get free play which you can switch through characters.
Just  it's a game where it takes a while  to p-  actually one hundred percent complete.
But once you've one hundred percent complete it,  you spent like, a good  month  one-  tryna one hundred percent, and you won't even know it.
Um, Very first?
I would have to say,  mm,  it was the  Lego Batman one.
Nah, I don't think that's-  that's on the Wii.
What system do you have?
Xbox One?
You should get  Lego Marvel Adventures.
Yes, we got that one for Christmas and I beat it I believe in   February.
Mm-hm.
Mostly because we don't watch TV during the week so I only have to play on the weekends.
So when I played on the weekend it was hours at a time.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I've seen a lot of buildings go up and come down  I would say.
A lot of things have changed  construction wise.
But soci- society wise  It depends on what part of DC you go to,  you're either seeing more whites or more blacks  in parts where they  didn't belong  I would say.
Uh, I think it was the other night I was in the- we was in the club bus with RD-NAME-2,  and we saw this  lovely white couple walking down the street.
And then we  realized where we were.
We was-  What's the name of this area?
We was up the street from the club  and  this area around here  is known to have a bad rep.
Very hood-like.
And being able to see a white couple just walking up the street  with no cares in the world, just knowing that they live here  was like,  oh they're making their way over here.
So they're trying to  break a barrier.
So they're trying to get out there  and  destroy stereotypes I would say.
And we saw  this-  we saw this-  I don't think they was a couple,  but they were living together  and they were up in Georgetown.
And like,  if you go to Georgetown, you don't see a lot of blacks  cause that's Georgetown  and things are expensive up there.
But being able- like to see them,  these two couples breaking barriers was just great to see.
I think it's good  but at the same time,  I'm not a humanist.
I'm not a humanist so I won't say,  no more construction, you're destroying our trees.
But,  I feel like it's getting to a point where they're just trying to put buildings in places where buildings don't really belong.
I get that DC is heavily populated  with people,  and they're just trying to give them places to live,  but at the same time,  there's a certain limit that you could go to.
Yeah.
I think it's-  there's a very  big  diversity in DC,  but I think the culture  will be  coming over when people come over as well.
So I think there's gonna be a big culture change  in the near future.
Especially in this area.
Cause  they put a  bike rack over- not a bike rack but  a place to rent out bikes.
And it's-  that's a  thing that  you wouldn't really see in this type of neighborhood.
And like,  the fact that they put that over there is like,  oh yeah the  changes are coming this way.
So,  I feel like a big culture thing  is about to happen.
Only because I've been in this area a lot I see that it's getting affected.
But like,  I feel like thing- other places are getting affected as well.
Cool.
My auntie for  as long as I can remember, as we lived in Maryland,  every summer my cousins would come down from Philly,  and she would just  take us to museums.
And I tell people all the time,  whenever we have a field-  no,  whenever RD-NAME-2 invites us to the museum,  I tell him,  already been there.
Cause my aunt has taken us to pretty-  I think she marked it off her list as taking us  to every museum in DC.
And granted,  I've only been to each museum  minimum twice,  so I don't really have a great memory of 'em.
The fact that I've been to every museum in DC and it's a lot of museums here,  says that  we got around.
And  she wanted  us to climb to the top of the monument, uh, Washington Monument.
We haven't done that yet,  and I'm-  now that I'm  more  active and fit I'm trying to get her to go up to the stairs.
Go up to the stairs and go up to the top,  so we could take a picture to prove that we went up there,  but she's been dodging it.
So now I'm tryna convince  RD-NAME-2 to see if we can go up there.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I'll meet you-  I'll meet you up there then.
I'm taking the stairs for real.
Alright.
Fact.
I believe that  when people come to DC they are coming for  tourist destinations and DC is that place to be.
But at the same time,  it's more than just monuments  and museums of DC- for DC.
Uh, we got restaurants that are  delicious.
Granted I haven't been to a lot of 'em,  and RD-NAME-2 talks about a lot of 'em.
Uh, but  there are a lot of great restaurants  here as well.
And I just feel like,  being able to tour DC  by myself  when I did it was like a great experience.
Cause it's a lot of  diversity and just  different things you wouldn't really see  in your neighborhood per se.
Uh, it's not a big one but District Taco.
They're real good.
My mom actually took me there and it was delicious.
So now,  I don't hate on Chipotle, but I prefer District Taco over Chipotle.
Absolutely.
Mumbo sauce  is  a carry out exclusive  that you get with your fried chicken.
And maybe if you're  really feeling it, you put 'em on your french fries as well.
But  when I-  whenever I would go out  to like  places like Virginia or Philly-  Philly, oh.
I aksed them what is-  have they had mumbo sauce and they say no.
Like,  I told 'em next time I'm going out there,  I'm bringing mumbo sauce with me,  so they could understand the experience  of mumbo sauce.
I don't under- really understand how to s-  describe it.
It's just  it's not tangy, but it's not-  It's not tangy it's like  not real sweet but it's sweet enough  that  it makes the chicken just taste better.
Yeah.
It's actually not in DC, it's a little carry out by my house  and it was around the corner from RD-SCHOOL-4.
And I would go up there  every- not every time but l- most of the time that I had money I would go up there and get a three piece with mumbo sauce,  just to get the mumbo sauce.
I-  if I have mumbo sauce left over cause I like to eat my stuff separately, I'll eat the chicken first then the fries.
If I have mumbo sauce left then I'll dip my fries in it.
Yeah, on the side.
A little cup.
Mm.
Yeah nah, mm-mm.
That's smothering it.
And you really take away the taste of the chicken at that point.
Mm-hm.
Absolutely.
Nah.
Cause then like it's just a mess at that point.
Right.
I get it.
I get that completely.
Gotta smother like that, mm-mm.
Right.
Ah,  people hate me for it but I don't  really listen to go go music.
I don't go to parties that much meaning  I don't  listen to go go music.
Go go or trap,  people hate me  cause I don't listen to trap or go go.
The music that I listen to,  is fast rap.
Cause like, when I r-  whenever I go to the gym  I like to  work fast pace.
So I listen to fast rappers and try to run to their tempo of- fast as they're rapping.
And  I just couldn't get with the slow beats.
I get  like if you hear it at a party  you'll wanna  like, get hype and stuff like that.
But like,  that's just not my type of music.
Artists I listen to now like  Eminem or Jordan Lucas, they rap fast.
And this new artist Token,  uh,  raps extremely fast to the point-  but it's clear,  which is the thing people forget about.
Uh, Tech Nine is known for fast rap but it- also extremely clear fast rapping.
And  he does this thing called, uh, Choppers.
where he would get the fastest rappers that he know, but they have to be clear.
And he knows a lot of fast rappers,  but at the same time they could rap fast but you won't understand a thing they're saying.
So he has Worldwide Choppers, Midwest Choppers, and Speed Demon  all with extremely clear rappers.
Speed Demon being Eminem and Tech Nine by themselves which was  great.
You could actually hear every single word that they were saying but at the same time,  I think  Tech Nine broke a record with his verse  for fastest verse.
And Eminem broke a record with,  uh, his song Rap God  and his little fast part.
I think he hit like,  uh, I  can't say off the top of my head but he hit a pretty high number in syllables  for his fast part.
Yeah.
But my rappers aren't like YouTube rappers, I like bar for bar speed rapping.
Not battle rap but like,  the rapper I listen to his name is Six Seconds.
He's not a-  he's done battle rap but he's not a battle rapper.
But  in his rhyme scheme you would think he is a battle rapper.
Cause he'll have bar after bar after bar.
His metaphors and his similes will be out of this world.
Be things that you would never even think of.
Yes.
Right.
Right.
Like people like listen to music for a beat nowadays.
I actually listen for like,  bars and lyrics.
Man I'm cool, aks as many questions as you want.
I'm very proud to be from DC.
Like, when we go out f- to different states, people-  I'll say Forestville sometimes but like, people don't know where that is, so I'll  claim DC,  cause everybody knows where DC is.
And being able to claim DC  like, it just makes you feel good cause you know you're coming from the nation's capital, so  you  know your stuff  pretty much.
Yes,  but also being  great partiers.
Yeah.