Having my children.
Mm-hm.
Because I didn't have my first son until I was thirty-two.
So when I was younger,  I always wanted a baby because I felt like  I had somebody to love  and somebody to love me back but for some odd reason God didn't let that happen.
He waited til I was thirty-two years old to have my first son.
And that- think that was the happiest day of my life.
Mm-hm.
Two, two sons.
A beautiful little grandbaby and a beautiful little grandson.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Uh, the same son.
My youngest son don't have no children.
I think he gonna be like his mother.
Wait until a while  before he- Cause he see how my  youngest son is kind of struggling you know.
So you know he  you know.
Oh yeah I remember my g- I don't remember my grandfather.
He was gone before I was born.
But my grandmother  she died at one oh one so yeah I remember- And one.
When she died.
And she-  Yeah I remember her a lot.
My father  I re- I mean he- I remember him, he was in the house but um,  that was the reason why I left home because see,  by him having all them girls our father he tried to sleep with us so I couldn't  deal with that so,  that's why I left home at a very young age.
Now he did  have  children by my oldest sister, they had six kids together, so  I got  cousins that's really my sister but  we call 'em  cousins.
Yeah but he was one reason and  back then in them days I don't know if-  My mother knew what was going on but I don't think she was the type of woman that  wanted to say  too much about it.
Yeah but um,  I just had to leave, I couldn't deal with that.
I think I woulda been crazy if- if I woulda stayed.
In my neighborhood?
My old neighborhood?
Last time I was there  one guy,  one guy, Mister-  Miss Virginia's husband, he still lived upstairs but I don't know if he  still live there or not.
Because it was-  it was a building but it only had four  apartments you know like two upstairs, two downstairs.
We lived downstairs  and I remember the Virginias lived upstairs and their family lived across from us, so-  We were like family too but  we separated and  you know.
My mother she moved,  my sister Jackie  she got involved with uh,  Miss Henry, they lived in the corner house, I don't know if you remember this but  some people do,  The D- you know, The Donahue Show.
You don't remem- Damn.
The Donahue Show.
But anyway he was married to Marlo Thomas but he had a talk show like Oprah.
Uh-huh and white hair.
W- white guy.
That was The Donahue Show, my sister  was on his show  with Marion Barry.
Years ago.
Because I'm the one- A lot of people don't remember that, but it was a girl that she was in the paper.
And she had twenty-two kids.
That was my sister.
But she was on The Donahue Show  and I remember Marion Barry asking her,  why do you have so many kids?
And she said,  because God made me as a woman to have kids.
And I remember her daughter KK,  she was- she was pregnant on that show  and um,  she had- a- and she was during the show her baby was dead inside of her.
She- she had a stillbirth baby.
Mm-hm and that was her.
But  yeah,  my sister, that's the one she had twenty something kids I don't know how in the world that- T- too many.
I can't even m- I- I don't even remember 'em.
I- I don't even-  If- if my-  if my sister kids right now walked up in this club I wouldn't know 'em.
I wouldn't know them.
They probably know me like,  you look just like  my mother, you know, that's probably it- cause some of 'em come up to me now in the street.
Is you a RD-NAME-2?
And sometime I say  yes, sometime I say no.
You look just like somebody I know.
I'm like, oh, sorry about that.
Um,  my- my baby sister um, she's um, RD-NAME-2 is forty.
Forty something.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
But RD-NAME2 she was born with a hole in the brain so,  she-  she's in a home right now, she been in a home for years, ever since she was  a b- a child.
She been over St.
E,  then um,  they moved her, now they- they got her in um,    this place where they try to get you to  take care of yourself like, even with- with her sickness you know but people stay there,  you know they have counselors there to  watch her, to help her you know stuff like that.
My kids.
Once I  p- knew I- I- I-  I was pregnant, I didn't want to,  but  thank God for my children's father, he was- he was a good man but he- he passed away.
My oldest son know a little bit about his father because  his- he used to take him to work you know h- his job was PMI, you know parking cars.
And um, he took him to work but my youngest son,  I think that's why I have a lot of problems with him because  I think he miss his father  you know having a male figure in his life.
But um, what was the question again?
Oh.
My- my- my children, I wound up having my first son,  I wound up getting on public assistance,  they took care of me for like,  two years.
and then I got off and I worked.
And I worked and I just built-  you know I got my first place and  it was efficiency and I  built it up from there and then when I knew I was pregnant  his father we moved into a-  a two bedroom.
And my life to me  it just been going steady ever since.
Mm-hm.
Um, I worked at RD-WORK-5 I worked at RD-WORK-3- Uh-huh.
No not THEARC.
RD-WORK-5 Mm-hm.
I worked there for  seven years.
And when  um, their budget went kind of  down the hill,  you know they-  they didn't wanna get rid of me but when they cut my money so  that's when I had um,  ran into somebody,  the guy that was um-  he came over to a um, b- um,  the um,    RD-WORK-4 looking for people that  wanted  a job so I was like, okay well it- it- you want me cleaning?
He was like, yes, so I started  with RD-WORK-5 in two thousand nine.
Mississippi.
Mm-hm Mississippi.
And then when I had left there-  Well they- they fired everybody there because  nobody wasn't doing their job, I was doing everything but  I was fired in the midst of it.
Then um,  RD-NAME-3 he the one that said RD-NAME-2 I'm'a get you with RD-WORK-5.
So h- I worked at Mississippi for a while til I got fired then I was off for like four months which depressed  the world out of me.
And then  RD-NAME-2 called  and said, RD-NAME-2  I- I heard you got a  good reputation and I want you to come work for RD-WORK-5, so I said, okay.
And I been here ever since.
Yeah six year- six- six years going on seven.
I worked at this one, Mississippi,  the one up that they used to have on New York Avenue that got-  Uh-huh.
Uh-huh I worked there.
And those the only three  until- until they sent me out in Virginia  to work out there for uh,  two months in   Virginia?
No.
I liked it.
Yeah  That was the only thing.
Only thing I about, RD-NAME-2 that I was like,  oh my god these steps.
But I liked it there, it was nice.
Mm-hm.
Yeah yeah it is.
Yeah, I don't even think I could live nowhere else.
Virginia,  I never lived out there but  you know it's- I- I hear it's  lot of prejudice going on out in certain parts of Virginia so I try to stay out of that part.
Maryland,  that's where I live,  I think it's more quieter.
Um, they don't b-  they don't believe in fire crackers cause I don't believe in that either.
So that's why I moved to Maryland.
Um,  I raised my kids in Maryland.
I li- I raised my kids in Maryland where you getting ready to take me tonight  home.
But it was on the other side.
Then I moved out of Maryland, moved back to DC.
Then  it was too much going on so I moved back to  Maryland in the same complex on the other side  in  two thousand twelve.
DC is right there and Maryland- Right.
I get off the bus in DC and cross the street into Maryland.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It's from DC.
Yeah,  yeah,  I met some of the people  like that but um,  I- I'm r- I'm normally the type of person that just stay to myself.
Mm-hm.
Like a lot of people in my building  they- they'll tell me,  honey I don't even see you unless you going to work and coming home.
Or- or  on weekends I might go over my girlfriend house they see me going out and that's it.
No.
N-  never- never learned how to drive, public transportation everywhere, I don't like the train.
But when I t- to get over um, RD-NAME-2 house every weekend I got to take it.
I don't know it's just too much happening on the train right now.
you know people dying you know,  trains crashing you know,  I'm just-  I'm just a fear of heights and when a-  when I'm too far up or too closed in,  it bothers me.
Ye- No.
No I just started riding the train um, since I been working for RD-NAME-2.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, not even a year.
It been like maybe a few months.
All my life.
If I ain't on the bus,  I'm in-  Before my children's father died, before I-  you know, my husband died,  they take me places but it was always Metro.
Always.
So do I.
Mm-hm.
That's what I try to tell RD-NAME-2 he say get here at four, I told him,  I can't control Metro.
I be out at my bus stop every day at three.
Busses be passing me by,  and I'm still standing there.
And time I get here,  it's like something to five.
And don't live that far but the- Sometime- Right.
Sometime the busses just be so jammed and they have people standing in-  al- damn near in the mirror.
I- I- They just go on past me and I be like,  I'm not standing on that bus, so I just stand and wait for the next one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And sometime I even walk to work.
From S-   If I leave home like,  three o'clock,  I'll get here  close to the time I supposed to be here.
Mm y- um, yeah.
Yeah.
I- I'm a fast walker but since my hip been hurting it just slows me down a lot.
You know.
I do.
I do and a lot of people don't understand that, I do.
I took cleaning after our- my mother.
My mother she cleaned houses like I said for thirty five dollars, you know.
And to take care all of us she went  way out  I mean,  we lived in  Southeast she had to go all the way to Georgetown, so that means she was on that thirty two to damn near at the end of the line.
Just to go and make thirty five dollars for cleaning somebody house to take care of us.
Take care of her kids,  and see,  that's why my mother and grandmother always said, I don't care what- told all of us that, I don't care what kind of job you have,  be the best at it.
Be the best at whatever you do.
So by me cleaning,  just like I tol- like  some people aks me,  why you come to work looking like that?
I'm like, look,  just because I clean,  that don't mean I have to look like I clean.
You know I could come to work looking just as nice and clean just like everybody else.
You know, that's just me.
That's w-  I got that from my mother.
Sure do.
Mm-hm.
Take pride into- Yup.
Yup.
take pride in it.
Yup because RD-WORK-2 RD-WORK-5 was- I mean they gave me-  RD-NAME-2 said, I ain't never in my life RD-NAME-2  had a person that give me a recommendation like they gave you.
They said you was dedicated,  you know you- you- you- you- you love what you do, you can have problems at home but when I walk through that door up front,  them problems are gone.
I come to my second family, I'm smiling, I'm  you know,  I'm doing my work, that's what I do that's what makes me  happy.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-2  Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I know, I know, I know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
My go- sometime- yeah my gospel.
Sometime I have my gospel music I be in like in another world, I mean I have songs that  just- just-  you know like um,    oh I can't never think of his name, Halerkiah Walker.
Oh I love that song, it just gives me inspiration.
You know and another one, I forget who the guy sings it um-  um-  um-  oh god, it's right on the tip of my tongue.
You know, without the Lord you know I'm just nothing.
You know if he's not in-  you know, leading my life,  like I was  t- telling RD-NAME-2 you know,  my mother raised us in church.
I mean,    we got a whooping if we didn't go to church.
You know, so that's instilled in me.
And that day I fell,  you know and I told the Lord, Lord you know I fall,  but I still know that you-  you God.
I mean, I've sat in my house like I was just telling my girlfriend up there she say, RD-NAME-2 I know you do do it.
When my grandkids  went with me,  I sit in my house  RD-NAME-2, for like two, three days.
Oh we had nothing to eat.
But I'm happy.
I go in there,  I f-  get me some ice water,  I go in their room,  and I sit,  and I watch TV.
I don't go to clubs,  I go to work, I go home,  I go to bed,  I get up, I do things in my house, wait til it's time for me to go to work I'm  back to work.
Kendall.
Branch Avenue.
Yeah,  yeah for a while.
For a while.
My son wants me to switch up and go to his church but you know,  I told him you know,  your church have a lot of teenagers, my church have  people my age.
You know so-  An- and they love me at my church, they say that I'm very helpful, I help 'em in the kitchen,  you know sometime I mentor kids  at the church.
You know I can sit down and let 'em know you know some things that I been through and  it's not good for you to wanna-  You know just two weeks ago when I went to church and I-  I saw this young girl  and  this young guy h- and you know I mean they  coming out of church and I mean he got her all up against the wall in the corner and you know and I-  I just tapped her on the shoulder and I said, can I talk to you for a minute?
And she said, oh yeah RD-NAME-3.
And I said, what you're doing is not good.
I said, it's not good at all,  I say, because if you get pregnant,  then you putting all that responsibility on your mother.
It's nothing that you gonna be able to do because you a kid yourself.
And don't let no boy talk you into doing nothing that you're not ready to do.
If he don't like you, he just don't like you.
And she was like,  yes ma'am, and she went back into church and that- and you know- and I-  I- I see a lot of young girls I just  walk up and tell 'em because I mean I'd rather tell you now,  in case you're not getting it from home,  for me to see you in another  nine months and you got a baby talking about you need help.
Mm-hm.
Keep your mouth closed and listen.
Because a lot of young people don't listen.
A lot of young people don't listen see they too busy telling us.
And  they haven't been  around long enough   and like I tell my kids, it's not that you can't tell me nothing, let's not- let's get that straight now.
Because you can tell me a lot because it says in the Word that you know, kids  you know- That's right.
So y- it's not like you can't tell me nothing but if I'm telling you something that I done been through,  and I see that you  heading down that road,  sometime it- it's just best to  keep this closed,  and le- and leave these open,  and then that way, you can- you might not have to go through what I went through.
You know, if you just listen.
And you know and just stop with-  with all this.
Well you know this that and I go get my mother and  you know my  sister and you know all this and that, I- no one have time for that.
No.
so my- my f-  the best thing I could tell kids today  is listen.
Listen.
You'd be surprised what you can learn just by listening.
And you'd be surprised you don't have to go through a lot of things  that I went through  if you just listen to my experience  and  you know,  kind of run with it.
You know how y'all run with  certain things you don't supposed to run with well you know run with some knowledge, you know.
You know listen to  older people, they have a lot to tell you.
I mean a lot of young people don't  listen to- You know I- I talk to a lot of  young people myself and they be like,  well my mother she don't do this and my mother she don't listen to me, and this and that no,  well that goes  for the parents too, sometime we have to  be quiet  and listen to what  our children wanna tell us so we can come to a agreement,  and life might be better for you and me.
You know, so.
Mm-hm.
Where you from?
Okay.
Tremendously.
Mm-hm.
Well when- w- w- when I was younger,  all I saw was- you know I mean,  a lot of things I saw then  it- a- a little bit have changed but I'm still seeing it  you know like,  okay-  like,  homeless people, I'm still seeing them they was back there in my days but  the only difference that I see in  DC now  even though they  put up a lot of buildings,  beautiful buildings and  stuff like that but it's-  it wasn't that much killing back-  back then in my days as it is now.
You know people getting shot for no reason,  you know  d- um,  like I tell people you know when it-  I hate to get off the subject but you know when it come- I was just telling my son,  I said w- like when uh, that Baltimore thing happened I say, we  we just can't go around just  blaming  one race.
I said, we have to blame our race too for some certain things,  I say because it really pissed me off RD-NAME-2  when that thing went down in Baltimore and how we  as people  as black people,  we can't come together  and  protest  without tearing down stuff and putting stuff on fire and the stuff like that so  my- my answer to that, I think back there in the fifties where I was coming up was much better than today.
I really do.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah I was there.
Ye- yes.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
I remember that  me and my family we was in the house,  and um,  one of the neighbors, I'll never forget that, knocked on my mother's door and said, you know Martin Luther King?
He got shot, he got shot, and  I remember all of us  crying and hollering and  I remember my brothers was heading out the door  and my father stopped 'em and said, no,  we're- Instead of us going out there to do what everybody else is doing we are gonna sit here and we're gonna pray.
We're gonna pray,  we held hands in circles and we prayed,  and  as we praying we could see people running  outside with  televisions, sofas and stuff like that you know.
And as a kid, being honest  I just didn't get it.
I just didn't understand what was we learning from that I mean you know,  Dr.
Martin Luther King he-  he taught me so much.
And what he taught me was not  to go out there and break in a store  and steal.
I-  I- it- that just wasn't what he taught me.
But,  I didn't like it.
just like I didn't like it- you know I mean it was-  it's so many other ways we could have went.
But we didn't.
you know, we- we- we decided to, okay let's go bust into stores and  this that and get this that and the other and-  But our mothers didn't allow us to do that,  you know so we wasn't involved.
But she did send us to the store  and right there on top of Sears and Roebuck on Alabama Avenue where it was,  not- all I could see was nothing but army men with  guns like this.
And I remember one of 'em hollering at us telling us,  go back home!
Go back home!
And we took off running.
And we went back home, told our mother, we can't go to the store, they got-  they got army men,  in- in my day they were army men,  on top of Sears.
And then she said, okay well we just gonna have to do without.
So.
Until it was all over.
But I just- I just remember-  I remember my father and mother walking us through the neighborhood and I- I remember just crying.
Cause I'm seeing all the  black stores  torn down,  burnt down, you know destroyed  glass busted and  I was sad.
I was sad about it.
You know.
Me and my son  yester- other day we had a conversation right because  his views are different because he young, he like, well Ma,  you know,  I look at it like that thing in Baltimore, I look at it like this you know,  the young people  you know and this that, yeah that's okay RD-NAME-2 that's your opinion.
But I still say it starts at home.
It starts at home.
P- These kids cannot come to the Boys and Girls Club and get raised, they can't go to church and get raised and they can't go to school and get raised.
Have to start  With the parents.
Right there at the house.
And all the time my father wasn't in the house or my r- my mother she did a  excellent job raising us though.
Oh yeah.
Buildings and- In my day  to this day,  no.
Like I said, I see a lot of buildings getting put up,  you know a- and- li- like I tell people,  when I say  um, the generation today or the people of today I'm not even gonna say the generation even people my age,  they just not as kind  and nice.
As they was back in my day.
You know back in my day you know if we did something wrong,  you know  the whole neighborhood  c-  coulda- coulda jumped in  before we even got in the house you know the neighborhood could- RD-NAME-2 I heard you was doing bad in school today.
You know, come here let me talk to you.
And we had to listen.
It wasn't no,  you can't talk to me, kind of thing.
You not my mother, and all this and that movement.
Wasn't that.
Today,  it done got worse.
Half of these kids we can't talk to.
And I don't think- I really don't think  it have changed.
Not at all.
The- But it- it-  Through-  through a lot of these bad kids  it's-  it's some good kids mixed in 'em.
It's some good kids, I have to give them credit, it's some good respectable kids.
I would say about  thirty percent of our kids are respectful the rest of 'em  are just disrespectful.
I ride the bus every day.
I hear it,  I see it.
I hear  young people cussing out older people I see young people  sit right in the chairs that  it says right there, for older people, senior citizen, people with canes but they will not get up.
They'll sit there, they'll look at you like,  and if you aks me to get up  then I might have a few words for you.
So,  no.
No.
I- I just don't think so, no.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yes.
No I get involved.
Sometime I go- Yeah I done been to the capital I mean, uh, one time before my  leg started hurting I used to protest  you know with certain groups.
On- It depends on what we protesting about.
You know I'm not gonna just go out there and just procrest for any dumb thing.
And- But  certain rights you know like-  like Congress I think the people in Congress I- I just think they  they not right.
They ain't right  you know.
They just not right but  you know  what can we do?
That's why it's so important for us to vote.
It's very important for us to vote That's right.
That's right.
I think- I think it affected me  a lot  but,  n- But when I-  when I first knew I could vote  oh, I- I think I was the first one in line, I was so proud of that I was-  I felt like  you know I was accomplishing something.
Oh my god I can vote now, you know.
I have an opinion  on  on certain things you know  and  you know I-  I'm glad we di- I'm glad I did live to see a-  a black President in office because I thought that would never happen.
I ain't never thought we would have a black- Mm-hm.
And just like I'm'a vote  because  you know  it'd be a shock if  Hillary  became  President, she'd be our first woman President.
So,  things like that yes,  I see change  in that.
Because at one time you know they wouldn't even consider  a black person to get- going into the White House?
Please.
But  things like that, yes  has changed.
You know,  have changed.
I  things like-  a lot of things they have to for the kids today,  yes.
Change.
Computers?
Yes.
Back in my day there was no computers.
Everything we learned  it had to come from here.
We didn't have computers, iPods,  all that.
No we ain't have that.
We ain't have that.
I think they worse.
I really do.
Because they- they- they got all this internet and they got th- all this TV, and you know and-  and- and- and Facebooking and  you know stuff like that.
I never knew how to do that.
You know and in a way I-  like my sons ask me, Mom you wanna learn?
No.
Because I don't want  my business all over Facebook and I don't want  somebody putting my  business on Facebook, Facebook don't know me and I don't know Facebook.
So,  let's just leave it at that.
Like I tell my son when he wanna snap a picture.
Don't take no pictures of me.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm, mm-mm, mm-hm- That's what I mean RD-NAME-2, they don't do that.
We went to the park,  our parents took us to the park,  we jumped double dutch, you know we- we did a lot.
Play hop scotch you know play tag.
But that's not the games that the kids today wanna play.
They wanna play  grown-up games.
They wanna play like, oh,  you know, such and such got a baby, maybe I oughta get one but you know it's not that easy, you know children are very expensive.
You just can't go out here and I- I d- like I told  this other lady,  this other girl that I know you know,  y'all gonna stop having all these babies, because see th- you- they-  you know back in the day,  like I tell 'em,  when my mother was on welfare  we couldn't have irons,  that was a luxtury.
We couldn't have TVs,  that was a luxtury.
Our TV we had to put a quarter in the back in order for it to work.
You know we had that kind of TV.
You know, once the quarter ran out-  That was it.
Our parents like,  Mom could you put another- No, that's all the TV you needed today.
It's that.
Color TV?
No, we put the color paper  on top o- in front of the TV to make it color but we didn't have color TV.
But like I say, when we was on public assistance,  my mother couldn't have my father in the house  we couldn't have a iron,  that was a luxtury we couldn't have a stereo, that was a luxtury.
You know things that  people take for granted today.
We couldn't have that.
Our parents couldn't have it but now,  today,  like I told you know- I was just telling her-  the girl that stay with me,  Sometime it make me sick  that y'all can sit around  and wait on a check every month and here I'm sixty two years old and out here working.
And y'all can wait on a check every month.
And get more than me.
That's the sad part.
And then you get food stamps and everything, I went to apply for food stamps they wanted to give me ten dollars.
So I'm like,  okay.
Lady said, now you come back, I said, alright.
I ain't never show back up.
It's a waste.
But then you wanna give  the younger generation four or five hundred dollars worth of stamps and they outside in the front of the store selling 'em.
See,  I- that- that right there, you know  I be saying to myself, Lord that's why the world the way it is.
Too-  The generation today they get too much.
An- and they don't appreciate it.
My- in my generation, whate- what we got, we appreciated it.
Hand-me-down clothes,  I don't even care what it is.
It's no way that our parents woulda bought us hundred dollar tennis shoes.
That's just out of the question.
We-  That was out of the question.
In our house clothes  and food was first.
You know clothes to wear to school.
And that was it and food on the table.
That was it.
And don't even think about  cussing our mothers out if they-  you know cause the kids today they a little spoiled.
So don't-  don't think about us cussing our parents out because we couldn't get a pair of  hundred dollar shenni- tennis shoes cause  even though I lost my teeth in a accident, in a car accident but my mother woulda just knocked 'em out  before I got in the accident, so.
We didn't do that.
Yes  um, working at a swimming pool.
Mm-hm that was my first job.
I always wanted to- I love to do work.
My mother and father they both work, my father he-  he was- like I say he was a boot black shined shoes on the street.
B- at- in Silver Spring.
And  and um,  and um, the-  the white people they loved him so much,  they built him his own shop.
They built him his own shop because he-  he used to  do it right on the street right- you know they used to shine your shoes right on the street.
You know.
And he didn't have no shop but  they built him his own shop.
Over the years.
Mm-hm.
I wasn't no lifeguard cause I couldn't swim.
But I was like you know help  girls in-  in the shower you know.
Make- you know,  put their clothes in the locker room make sure nobody didn't bother 'em,  hand out towels, stuff like that.
You know,  that was my first job my f- first- I was um-  I had to be between either  thirteen,  twelve,  ele- between eleven, twelve, or thirteen.
I think it had to be between eleven and twelve,  cause thirteen that's when I left home.
S- Southeast mm-hm, Southeast right off Bru- uh, Bruce.
Going down  um,  Morris Road.
It's a swimming pool  right on your  right hand side.
I think so,  yeah.
Mm-hm.
Right.
It- it- yeah.
Community pool.
I thought it was a rec center because- nah it wasn't no rec center it was just  a pool.
Cause they didn't have nothing like um,  games or anything like that you just come there to swim.
And that's it.
Oh yes.
I l-  I-  I wasn't really crazy about it but they had a go go  place right there on Eighth Street.
I don't kn- I- y'all couldn't have remember that .
Right there  where you stand there catch the ninety two it had the word,  go go  right there.
I mean you can go in there on  weekends and just have a blast.
I mean you had  fun,  you know um, the music, it was nice.
You know but  it wasn't no violence you know you could go in and-  and- and-  come out happy, go in happy and come out happy.
Yeah it was real nice you know we wore our little  go go skirts,  you know a little pleated skirts.
Wear our little-  They had-  they had shoes out called the twenties.
I don't know if you remember that.
Well they had  three of 'em.
They had the twenties,  the tens,  and the nineteens.
The tens were the cheapest.
We had the tens.
And  they like shoes they closed in in the front and opened up in the back with a strap.
And we used to wear our little s-  tight little sweaters and our little skirts and  our little  tens to the go go club on Eighth Street.
Have a ball.
Have a ball.
See that's why I don't go to clubs today, you know it's too much violence.
You know I don't know if I'm'a go in  and I don't know if I'm'a come out.
And  It's just so much I gave up.
Like I said, when I was younger,    I went through a lot  but-  but-  but I have-  Even though I left home when I was thirteen and I didn't really have nowhere to go,  but I had a good time.
Because I had no-  no worries, you know.
I didn't have to see the things that I  saw  when I  was coming up  you know  in my own household,  I didn't have to have worry about it anymore.
You know it was just-  it was just a fun time.
I didn't have- like I say I didn't have my kids, I did a little bit of everything I worked, I-  I went to parties, I went to house parties, I jumped out a couple of windows you know with parents coming home.
You know did all that stuff that we did back there in the day.
I didn't- I didn't s-  I didn't smoke.
You know I didn't smoke- I didn't smoke until I got  older.
And um,   far as drinking,  nah I ain't never drunk.
I- I took one shot of liquor I hated it.
I never drunk  no more after that.
And uh-  but it was fun.
It was- it- I- I think we had more fun then  than the kids actually having fun today.
I think w- it was- it was just fun you know, Kennedy playground,  my mother used to set all of us out together, we couldn't come back with one missing because if we did, we would get a whooping.
Had to go get your own switch off- off the tree.
Couldn't be no  wobbly switch, it had to be one that went  Ugh  you know  brought back memories.
You know but,  the childhood I had,  I can't complain.
I can't.
No.
No.
Person I am today.
So that's why I-  I tell my children all the time, I'm glad I wasn't born in y'all generation.
I'm glad I was born in the fifties.
You know, it-  it's-  it was just-  it was just a better time  you know.
Even though we struggled,  don't get me wrong you know, but  things were cheaper like a loaf of bread, twenty five cent.
Of bread for twenty five-  You're right, I mean bread twenty five cent, a  gallon of milk wasn't nothing but like,  fifty-nine cent,  gallon of milk today almost over three dollars.
Two fifty.
So yeah, so, yeah that's why I say yeah, back in our day it was so much better you know.
We didn't have as many homeless people on the street  back in our days cause-  but now,  with the generation today I-  I walk around sometime I s-  I s-  just see too many.
I see too many homeless people, I'm like, Lord why do we have so many homeless people?
When you said it was enough for everybody.
And so why is  some people out here starving including myself, Lord, you know.
I- even though  I work  just to pay bills, I don't work to eat, I work to pay bills.
Because  where I live now if it wasn't for my son  and-  and  his girlfriend helping me out,  RD-NAME-2 I would be on the street.
Cause my rent is twelve thirteen.
Twelve hundred and thirteen dollars.
And  with all us putting together,  that's what makes it.
Um,  I remember this winter that just passed,  I was in my apartment  with no gas.
It  was so  cold.
But  Ju- Yo- when I walked in that door coming to work  nobody couldn't tell that when I went home I was freezing.
I came to work,  did my job, went back home, kept on my coat,  went to bed.
I just told my um-  my daughter in law, I said, don't bring the kids over,  because-  But she did.
So we wrapped them up, we all slept together, you know my gas is still off.
You know.
But I- you know I don't worry about it, I just say, Lord,  it's in your hands.
You know,  you know what kind of job I got,  I only make four nineteen,  so.
I can't take four nineteen and buy food and this that and the other gotta- that's my part of the rent.
You know my free check  which  is tomorrow,  some people say, oh, my free check is tomorrow cause all my bills are payed.
Nope.
Check I get tomorrow  that's  for my rent,  see.
That's- so that's how I do it.
You know, but I don't- Because God he will always-  That's why I say I thank God for RD-NAME-2  I- I told her my story, she be like,  RD-NAME-2  If you need something, just aks.
But I'm'a tell you something about me RD-NAME-2, I am a shy  person when it come to aksing people.
I'm very shy, always have been.
I be scared, it's like a scary thing like-  go ahead, aks 'em RD-NAME-2 I'm like, nah,  I'll go ahead and just walk home.
I'll leave here- I know.
I know  I know.
But-  but sometime I just feel like, okay these people got families or they old, they can't keep on helping me.
You know but RD-NAME-2 say,  don't-  don't think that way RD-NAME-2  don't think that way, cause she got mad cause I had to give my cat up.
I say, well it was either me or the cat.
And I couldn't pay you know- I know and I said, but see in my- You have a house, RD-NAME-2  I live in apartment.
When you start charging  fifty dollars o-  on to your rent  for having a animal,  then  you gotta give the animal up.
You gotta give it up, I said, that's what I had to do, she said, well I wish you woulda told me cause I woulda payed the fifty dollars  just so you could keep your cat.
I said, I know it because  having a cat,  cats make you so  calm.
Ever since my cat been gone,  I feel jittery.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.