We good.
Mm.
It's interesting.
Um,  l- I've used that word a lot,   uh,  during this  interview  m-  session,  but  it's true.
Um,  I remember when they first shut down that neighborhood  where-   Um,  there are a bunch of stories that I left out.
Um, there was a time that I walked through this particular neighborhood,  and, uh,  I was carrying pizza with my family.
Um,  and-  oh wait, I was carrying pizza for my family.
I was walking by myself.
I was maybe  twelve.
Um,  and  I was holding onto the pizzas,  and two dudes walked by.
And they like, faked like they were gonna try to snatch my pizza.
But I had a tight grip!
And then somebody across the street yelled, hey you better run,  and then like,  he- uh, I looked back, and they were starting to chase me.
Um,  and so I ran,    um, and I was just like, I never wanna walk down this street again.
Dang.
Can't even carry food to my family.
Blah blah blah blah.
Um,  and then  like two years later,  that whole neighborhood got shut down.
And  I thought to myself,  Word.
That's what's up.
Like,  shut all that shit down,  I'll never have to deal with it anymore.
But you know.
Um,  but  now,  I can see that that was the beginning  of like  the redistribution  of  m-  members of  DC.
Like- like DC's, uh,  black community.
Um,  and while-  Damn I got a piece for this too.
Um,  I got a piece that speaks directly to  gentrification and  what DC  looks like.
Um,    it's a double edged sword.
Part of me feels like  if  we  knew the value of the land that we are  currently residing on,  then we wouldn't litter in the communities that we're already in,  bringing down the property value to a certain point.
Um,  which then allows for  others to move into the communities,  and then,    uh, for  houses to get boarded up,  and then  uh, businesses to no longer want to come  into the community.
Then,  you know,  things can get  boarded up.
Like the old businesses get boarded up,  and then  a large business that doesn't  care about the community,  like say a Walmart  can move in,    um,  which then rises the property-  raises the property value  to a point beyond where the folks who are residing there  can  continue to afford.
Um,  so it's a cycle.
Like  if we would  take care of our communities first,  then the property values wouldn't  lower,  wouldn't be lowered  to a point  where  a business like a Walmart  would be able to buy for cheap  and then raise the values even higher than they already are.
Um,  yeah.
Yeah.
Cause like,  Walmart wouldn't be able to afford to put  a Walmart  in Tenleytown.
But they can afford to put  two  in Anacostia,  you know?
Or east of the river.
So  it's interest-  Like-  like-  and I'm not saying that it's our fault  because if crack  and heroin never hit the community-  community,  then  folks might have  been able to keep up  their  stuff back in the seventies and eighties.
And  if we had  better education in our community,  then we would realize that  this- uh,  that  the-  that throwing trash down in your neighborhood  is a direct-  is in direct correlation to  asthma rates  and- uh, and the roaches in the neighborhood and the rodents in the neighborhood,  um, which contribute to,  uh,  asthma infections for youth,  and children.
Um,   I just- it's-  it's a system,  and  while I'm happy for a safer DC,  I am sad  that  we can-  we feel like we're not supposed to be a part of it.
Um,  prime example  is, uh, the drum circle at Malcolm X Park, right?
So  I love drum circle.
And I've been going to drum circle for like,  seven,  eight years now.
And  I remember a time  when it was  all black,    and it was like,  white folk  didn't even know it was a thing.
Like a lot of us didn't know it was a thing,  but the folks who knew,  they knew.
And so-  um,    and so  a few years ago,  more white folks started coming.
And I'm like,  that's cool.
That's alright.
Whatev.
Like, be a part of it.
Um,  like,  the-  I look at-    I think there's a difference between  integration and assimilation.
And so a lot of  super pro-black folk-  and  I'm pro-black too.
Like, I'm like,  Yo.
But pro-black doesn't  equate to anti-white.
Um,  and I think a lot of super pro-black folk,  um, looked at that like, oh no,  we can't have white people  infiltrating  the- you know,  the s- the drum circle.
And it's like, well nah.
If they are coming, and they are learning,  um,  and they-  they don't like,  go to their neighborhood and try to start a drum circle and be like, this is mine!
Like don't conquistador the shit,  like,  fucking, you know, like, be a part.
Like  you can still come here and like,  learn more, and, you know, buy a djembe.
And like, you know,  get hip.
Um,  but  I started to see a lot of us stop coming  and just feel like,  well,  the white people started coming, so I'm not gonna come anymore.
And  that's ass backwards.
Like, when you- that's you giving  up  your  territory  because somebody else showed  interest in what you're already doing.
Um,  yeah.
Like, that's just so backwards to me.
And so,  um,  and I've always looked at it like,  the assimilation versus integration.
Um, a lot of folks  say  like, integration was the worst thing that could have happened to the black community,  uh, in the US.
And I think differently.
Um,  I think  the fact that we stopped supporting black businesses  once we w- started being able to buy at white ones  was the worst thing that happened.
Um,  it wasn't  integration that  caused us to fail,  I think it was folks being  adamant about assimilating.
Um,  and I understand code switching,  but  code switching  means you  hold on to elements of your culture.
Um,  then again,  black in America,  culture,  big disconnect too.
That's a whole nother conversation,  um, cause  if you are  African American  in the US,  um, but you can't  point to a African nation  or a tribe  or like  a crew even,  um, how connected to Africa are you?
Um,  and  when you start to look at that  disconnect,  then  you get  blacks in America  who  their real history- our real history,  and I recognize myself as a black in America-  I'm African American,  but  yeah.
Um,  our-  it's fucked up, but our  first known  bits of history that we can point at and say  that  was part of my family is slavery.
When you start with struggle,  you're  always gonna be repeating it  or  thinking that struggle  is  your barometer for, uh, success,  so.
Yes.
Well,  outside of go go,  yes, still.
Cause like,  go go is like a DC thing,  but  like,  there's just a certain  swag or-    and it's not even like style, it's just a vibe.
Like-  like I could be-    I could be in Philly,  and somebody  that's been living in DC for more than seven years walk in the room, and I'm like,  that's a DC cat.
Um, it's a certain  aura.
Um,  and back in the nineties,  like-  like folks from New York and Philly and down South,  they knew like, DC cats  were a different breed.
Um, we weren't  pressed to like, follow their styles, and we had our own clothing lines like,  Shooters and HOBO and  um,    man, um,  dang.
I'm'a feel bad for not remembering these jonts.
Um,    oh!
Solbiato.
Like-  like  all-  all of these like,  things that were  distinctively DC.
Um, and cats were like,  rocking slouch socks  versus like, the ankle socks.
That was a Baltimore thing.
We were always talking about how like, everybody else was a bama.
We came up with bamas!
Everybody else wanna claim it.
I was mad as a mug at Talib Kweli when he said,    um,  that New York started calling people bamas.
I was like, that's not true.
Um,  DC started calling people bamas,  uh,  saying that  they-  they-  they dressed poorly,  and so they were referred to as a bama  cause they dressed like they were from Alabama.
Like, it was- it was  derogatory to folks from  Alabama.
But, uh,  yeah, DC had a whole-  had a whole different swag.
And I think  with  the changing tide,  some of that is being lost.
Um,  just cause  folks don't know like, that history and that culture.
Um,  b- losing go go in the District- Cause now, for real,  if you have a go go band playing in DC, the cops shut it down.
Um, they really-  most go go performances are happening in PG county now.
Um, and you're starting to see some of that-  you're starting to see a lot of the same things that were happening in DC now happening in PG.
HIV infection rates are raising in-  rising in PG.
Um,    A lot of the style and brands are moving out to PG.
Um,    go go bands are performing out in PG.
Crime rates are rising  in PG.
Um,  yeah.
I'm okay with it.
Um,  my- my- my preferred go go  is from the mid nineties.
Um, like mid nineties go go.
Like,  everybody like Chuck.
So like Chuck Brown, it- that- that doesn't count!
Like- like- Yeah.
By default,  I like Chuck Brown.
Um, I don't have to like go go  to like Chuck Brown.
Um,  but    my favorite go go bands,  like,  you kind of-  If- if you like go go,  and th- a certain pocket,  um, cause there's different types of go go.
Um,  I mess with like,  the-  they call it the skillet pocket.
It's, um,    the pocket  of rhythm goes, uh,    right?
And there's variations on that.
Um,  and it's similar to the like,  one two three four five  six seven eight nine  ten  eleven twelve.
Um,  it all falls into this-    it's not a one four,  it's like a two four pocket,  rhythm pocket.
Um,  and then,  they  cut  that pocket in half and created bounce beat go-  go go,  which is like the popular go go that they listen to now.
Where it's like,     and um,  it's like,  they took out the horn sections for a lot of go go now.
And  the way  I heard somebody explain it  is   um,  go go  was always a really aggressive music,  um,  and so  the horns and the string section  were used to balance out the aggression of  the-  the percussion.
And so  you-  you rise up,  and then you mellow out.
Um, and it created a balance like a ying yang  in music.
Um,  when you take out the horn section,  um,  you get s-  straight aggression ,  and it's  all just  like  bah!
And it riles you up,  but it never brings you back down.
And so  um,  when that happened,  like,  you could see like,  correlation in  uh youth  gang violence  and  the-  the  uh,  mis- the lack of horn sections in go go music.
Like,  for DC,    it was like taking away-  it was like taking away  a white person's yoga mat.
Like , they're just like,  no- no outlet.
Like the outlet is there,  but there's no like  chill.
And so  yeah.
Um,    so yeah.
I still like go go.
Um,  I don't go to go gos often.
Um, I saw Trouble Funk play,  uh, over at F- on Fourth of July,  but that was a rock concert too,  so.
Yeah.
I like Mumbo Sauce.
Oh you mean the food?
Or the band?
Cause it's two.
Okay.
I mess with the band.
Um, that Welcome to DC song though, I wasn't a huge fan of cause it was- it was just like so   but-    uh,  but  I like the band overall.
Like, I like s-  their other music.
Um,  and then  I love  mumbo sauce, like  the actual sauce  is fucking great.
Um ,  it's like,  the best condiment ever.
Um,  and I- uh,  I wanted to write a blog  where I- uh,  I did the best mumbo sauce  throughout the District  in like,  carryouts, like, the best carryout mumbo sauce.
Cause I still say to this day,  Good Hope Carryout  on Good Hope Road has the best mumbo sauce in the city.
Um, I still  believe that strong.
Yeah.
Um,  so  the  actual sauce  is just sweet and sour  um, what is it?
Sweet and sour,  salt,  ketchup,    um,  and like a bit of hot sauce  and some barbecue.
But  depending on where you go,  it's a different  consistency,  and it's a different- um,    like,  low key, like a different make up.
So like, some will have like, a honey mustard base.
Some will have- like it depends on what you base it out of.
But that's really like the make up  of  uh, uh, uh, mumbo sauce.
Um, s- if you like it  more tangy,  then  folks ha- end up having more like, sweet and sour in the sauce.
Um,  and like, there's your  deep red mumbo sauce where you can tell there's like, more ketchup involved.
And it's like a-    it's usually like,  a little bit heavier in consistency.
Um, then there's like- I don't like  the-  the light mumbo sauce where it's like you can kind of see through it?
Naw, like, that's not the good mumbo sauce .
Like that's real.
It's like  you ain't- you ain't messing with that.
That's not my preferred.
Yo.
I mean- and- and i- if at any point you wanna like, do another session, like I got  st-  apparently I've got stories for days.
Mm-hm.
I got-  I got time.
And I wanna- I wanna find that poem and share that other poem with you too.
Yeah.