I've been in  the DC and Maryland area  for at least I wanna say-  I say all my life.
What am I now thirty-seven?
Then thirty-seven years.
um, I was born in DC, stayed here til I was five.
Uh, grew up right across the line  in Maryland  til I was eighteen.
Um, moved back to DC when I was  I wanna say  twenty-  twenty-five.
I stayed there for another  four years  and then move  out of Upper Marlboro.
Yeah.
But always been back and forth.
Always  been in DC always  traveling through DC.
That was where most of the fun was at.
That's where uh,  all the homies used to  gang up and everything.
E- elementary school, I went to a Maryland ele- elementary school.
My el- es- elementary school was RD-SCHOOL-3 Elementary.
And stayed right there off of um, Suitland Road.
Which was only probably like four miles from DC  actually.
And uh,  tell you the truth, it was- it- it was really-  it's no difference between  uh, Maryland  and DC schools.
Different lingo,  a couple of different things,  you know but  people basically the same.
Uh,  we use  the word young  a lot.
like,  New York people use the word yo,  or son.
Actually them little cats nowadays they-  they saying son  which came from  you know, New York I think  I wanna say but  You know like, what's up, young?
Know what I'm saying?
Ain't nothing, yo.
That's life though.
You know some of the words, um,  uh, go go lingo.
You know that was used a lot  when talking about  you know,  that particular  form of music.
You know like,  pockets and sockets and-  and stuff like that and cranking.
You know,  people  in other areas don't really use  those terms when they talking about music.
I'll say.
Go go music  is  basically a beat  a constant beat.
And um,    I don't know it just  kind of goes through you.
Once you hear it you really can't stay still.
The congos is one of the main  uh, instruments played  that  you know everybody will  come to hear.
And uh, also  just to hear  their name,  their neighborhood  being basically shout out or put on the tape you know like,  it'd be a whole crew of dudes just go to put they name on the tape.
Buy the tape,  and ride around so they could just hear that particular name being  shouted  all night.
So you know what I'm saying the go go scene was um, it- it w- it was a really fun scene.
You know, females  and different things that you've seen,  different things that used to go on in a lot of the clubs  you know being a youngin actually getting in them drinks.
You know I mean,  that- that was- that was it.
You know,  I mean once you got old enough to be into go go,  it's like,  I don't know, it was- it was just tight.
It was going to every night,  you know what I'm saying like dudes to go  certain clubs you know what I'm s- it was- it was a every day thing almost and whenever the-  whenever the jont was over,  Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday or whatever  you was going.
Save your little money up,  get in the club,  party in that jont.
meet girls from all kinds of neighborhoods.
You know what I'm saying  holler at dudes that you knew.
So.
It was just a tight scene, man.
It was a beautiful scene.
Oh yes indeed.
Indeed.
And I wasn't even with a crew.
That's the whole thing about it.
I wasn't even with a crew I mean most of my altercations came later on in life.
You know dudes getting a little bit too drunk  and we got into a little squabble.
My cousin got knocked out.
I got snuck  but I ain't get knocked out.
Uh,  that was one.
Another time, things got squashed real quick.
This dude  I guess he thought I was by myself, and um,  he wanted to  I guess uh,  make space between him and me even though we're in a club and it's  like  not really a lot of room whatsoever.
And uh, once he seen uh, all the peoples that I with  he w-  he uh,  kind of walked away.
You know I wasn't one to start nothing in the clubs and everything I was chill.
I was just  came to party,  get my drink on.
Freak a little bit.
You know what I'm saying, so I could  leave  in one piece.
Um,  It's just particular words being used.
I mean- Tell you the truth,  it's really no difference because  Maryland, outside of Maryland  like,  I know-  You have Baltimore, Maryland  but  Baltimore is a whole nother  place to us you know what I'm saying we don't really affiliate ourself with Baltimore, Maryland it kind of stops at  you know uh, what do you say, like Greenbelt or something like that, anything that was past Greenbelt off of BWI to me was  considered Baltimore.
And I know their words are  totally different than ours um,  growing up in- in DC and growing up in Maryland  everybody in Maryland was affiliated with somebody in DC, mostly your family,  was from there  you know.
I mean, at one point  anybody in Maryland  was- li- lived in DC.
It's like once you got money in DC once your people got money in DC they would move to Maryland and when you got two houses because you know it was lot of-  a lot of apartments  in DC.
And that's who used to live around.
And was like  particular places in  you know  uh,  what do you call it?
This side of Maryland.
You know, I mean come on, you go walk down the street and be in DC coming from Maryland on Pennsylvania Avenue once you pass  you know, Southern Avenue  that's DC.
And um,  you know, I mean they  really didn't get along cause anybody that's from DC that stayed in DC and  was in DC their whole life  really didn't consider Maryland being  an affiliate.
But  you know I mean  i- it's- it- it was really no different to me you know what I'm saying growing up from my  perspective in- and- and- and my  you know uh, things that I went through with it  you know what I'm saying like I lived in  Suitland  and my grandmother lived in Southeast at the time we used to be over that jont every day.
You know what I'm saying, sit outside,  my uncle  sitting there you know what I'm saying watch him drinking beers and just talking  you know what I'm saying,  and that was back in the day.
And they would use words like chump,  you know what I'm saying, sucker, jive turkey, and all of that shit, you know.
Oh I cursed, I'm sorry.
My bad.
I live in southern Maryland now.
Yeah.
I been in Southern Maryland  since like two thousand seven I wanna say.
Yeah.
Married.
And that's when I moved to  um,  southern Maryland.
Moved in with my wife.
Been ever there-  been there ever-  ever since I married her.
Had kids and everything they grew-  they growing up in southern Maryland.
You know  I mean,  it's quiet out here.
It's real quiet.
Ain't too much happening.
The band?
Or  the food?
Uh, I know the band.
I never seen 'em  you know live  but  they did have a song,  I think they  have a song called Welcome to DC.
That I used to listen to on the radio like they used to play it on ninety-three point nine, ninety-five  and um, they were pretty cool, I know one of the dudes actually went to Suitland and   the high school that I graduated from.
Um,  as far as mumbo sauce on the chicken  uh,  that  particularly is a mystery I don't know what   a mumbo sauce is but it's just so good.
And  When you get a five wings with fries you get mumbo sauce  on the ketch- I mean mumbo sauce on the chicken, mumbo sauce  on the fries sometime, salt, pepper, ketchup.
You know what I'm saying with a half and half.
At any  you know  carry out.
You know what I'm saying it's a difference between a Chinese restaurant and  a carry out, carry out got like American food  but  you know Rucker's Subs  you know they sell Chinese stuff but you know what I'm saying you don't really  indulge in that too much but  you know what I'm saying like when you get that-  that five wings with fries, three wings with fries, any number of wings with fries, salt, pepper, ketchup, you know what I'm saying, yeah you doing something.
I don't know what it's made of  or what  but I know  all-  it's- it's- it's-  it's like four or five different  kind of mumbo sauces.
You know what I'm saying, one of 'em's sweet,  and there's like-  there's bright red another one that's like a dark red.
It's not as sweet.
Sometimes they make it into like a- a  barbecue-ish  type of mumbo sauce so it depends on which jont you go to.
You know what I'm saying, who- who- who- who making the- the mumbo sauce but  it's like a necessity.
After you taste it you don't- you don't want just regular fried chicken anymore.
But it's bomb though.
That jont bomb.
Uh- Um- The neighborhoods I stayed in-  I actually visited my neighborhood that I  was- was born in because I didn't know too much about it.
We  moved away from there before I was  able to you know go out,  meet friends and-  and- and- and- and just do stuff.
Like we used to live around Southview.
Southview really didn't change too much other than up the street  uh, before you hit like Wheeler Road  they put some townhouses there which weren't there whatsoever.
It used to be  wood-  wooded area.
And my father used to  j- uh, go out and hunt  squirrels  in that jont, you know what I'm saying, come back home and make like squirrel hats.
And I used to be pressed for the- for- for him to go like that, you know what I'm saying, you going to get some squirrels today?
He like, yeah man so I can make some hats, I need to skin 'em and- and- and make like these  Daniel Boone looking hats  with the squirrel tail hanging off.
Um-  uh, Savannah Street was actually the name of the street that I was born on.
And uh,  they started knocking down the houses and putting in townhouses and everything.
It's a lot of stuff that really  really changed in DC from what I used to know from when I used to  kind of like roll around, like we used to  just squad up on-  on- on a Thursday and a Friday and just ride around DC all day.
We in the car, you know what I'm saying, and we smoking, we drinking or whatever just listening to  like  old music,  rap music,  rack of go go, you know what I'm saying, any one of the    um,   Backyard, Junk Yard,  uh- uh, Chuck,  you know, even older bands, Petworth,  um,  like,  when I was coming up,  you know what I'm saying around that time I even had a band myself.
Um,  it was a rack of bands like,  any  anywhere you went  you know what I'm saying, any neighborhood had least like four or five bands coming from it you know what I'm saying there's a lot of talent in DC, you know what I mean, it- it- it-  it doesn't get exposed  a lot.
But these youngins out this jont man be tight.
You know  I used to play with a band  called uh, Superior Groove.
Um,  used to stay around Simple City  um,    uh, used to play at  this  club off of Division Avenue, I forgot the name of the jont.
But uh,  you know,  that- that- that- that was my-  my scene  right there.
And actually I felt  a lot more comfortable  being with a band  that was from- actually from DC versus a band that I played in Maryland, you know what I'm saying we played a lot of Maryland spots but  you know that DC had just that raw-  that raw sound you know what I'm saying, them dudes was just raw you know.
They went hard  you know what I'm saying it was like,  this who I am, I'm down to die for mine  and ain't nobody about to change that.
You know what I'm saying, I'm from DC ain't nobody gonna chump me.
Period.
You know  that actually was-  it was- it was- it was kind of-  that was a good feeling right there.
You know them kind of dudes got your back.
Uh, my father-  my father  um,  he grew up in- in DC.
He was uh,  a DC dude and actually my mom  was born and raised in DC also.
They met on Savannah Street and they was together-  I think Dad met Mom when she was like  I wanna say  fifteen, sixteen.
Dad was like  eighteen, nineteen or something like that.
And uh, he  grew up around  um,  <ts  ah what is the name of that place?
Right there off of uh,  Suitland it's like the bottom of Suitland  Parkway.
Right before you hit  East Capital  Street.
Um,    it's a-  it's a big name um, everybody b- uh, Barry Farms matter of fact.
Dad was a Barry Farms cat.
And uh, Barry Farms is one of the hoods you know what I'm saying that's basically known in DC.
Southeast side.
You know,  one of them  like, yeah you gotta be hard to live in  Barry Farms  type of jont.
Dad was no nonsense.
You know  the thorough dude  you know.
Kind of like showed me things as I got older  you know.
My mother  she was smart.
I mean just real smart, she was a dietician  and she also was a florist  um,  damn near  you could say she was a scientist also.
You know she just did a lot of things, she- she- she put a dude on.
And that was  where my smart side came from.
You know what I'm saying, and I remember them just-  you know I grew up in a two parent house  and it was real cool, father was never home for real.
You know he was out doing his thing.
You know what I'm saying, he couldn't shake- shake the beast  that every man got basically.
You know  kind of got of age and- and  understood the way that he flowed more.
You know when I was young I just was pressed to be with him all the time.
But uh, he used to make me be with my mother.
You know what I'm saying it was, stay with your mother, stay with your mother.
But um, he was uh-  he was a challenging dude.
A great dude though you know what I'm saying, he showed me by- a lot of things by example how he just  you know, would fight  and come out of adversity and everything.
He had uh,  dropped out at um, the seventh grade.
You know, he didn't know how to read.
He uh,  got to a certain age I think in his forties and I guess he just got tired of it you know what I'm saying, and started um,  taking classes on reading and everything.
And see he also was a uh, martial artist.
Um, he love guns.
The dude had a rack of pistols.
Um,  he w- also was in church, he was a minister.
Uh,  but just uh, all around like, lovable person like, everybody loved my father.
You know.
And in the house you could see why.
You know he was a quiet dude but he worked hard.
You it was one thing he installed in me, that work ethic.
And um,  you know  just  was one of them dudes man, you know what I'm saying, that you just love to be around.
I miss that cat.
He got killed in uh, two thousand six I wanna say.
Yeah, two thousand six he actually uh,  got killed in a car accident.
Lived three days after it,  and uh, perished after that.
My mom  like I said just smart.
Lovable.
Crazy as hell.
Uh,  raised two boys, two girls.
My siblings.
I'm the youngest.
And um, she just  put a lot of- lot in us.
You know,  how to  stand tall for yourself, make a name for yourself.
You know,  wake up with a purpose.
It's like, there's no purpose for you to be here if you don't have a purpose to wake up.
Basically.
Have something on your agenda.
Or something on your plate  you know what I'm saying, every single day.
You don't just get up  and just lounge, and you know, there's no space for you in- in the world  for real, you need to  not be here  if you don't have  some type of purpose or some type of meaning  or- or want.
Every day.
Yeah that's my lady.
She's still living.
Yeah.
Uh yeah, my sisters-  my two sisters and my brother grew up in  in DC.
My brother graduated from  I wanna say RD-SCHOOL-2.
My two sisters I think they graduated either from RD-SCHOOL-2 or RD-SCHOOL-2.
Not really sure if they even graduated or not.
You know times was wild back then.
Um,  they could probably tell you a lot more  than I could.
Especially in that era  when uh, DC was the best, it was the best back in the day.
Nowadays it's uh, it's a little  crazy out there.
Um,  my brother taught me a lot of stuff.
You know, he was a DJ,  he was a young entrepreneur.
You know he was a  worked for um,  a car  dealership back when he was in his twenties as a manager so he just had money.
And when we lived in Maryland he used to just come home with  all types of females and  all kinds of  vicious gear and gold chains and all of that stuff you know, he kind of like inspired me, I just wanted to be with that dude all the time.
My sister, one of my sisters you know, she was- she was wild you know.
She had  four boys.
She moved back to DC, she used to live off of B Street.
And that was kind of wild  cause um,  dude she was married to was a crack head.
And um,  he was uh,  a abuser.
I used to go over there and stay from time to time, I never wanted  to stay but they used to make me kind of like stay, and I never spent the night.
But they would take me over there just to be with my sister to kind of like you know what I'm saying I guess break the monotony up from her  husband doing  crazy stuff.
And he just  recently  passed also, that was  wild.
Yeah, I never got to  really tell him how I felt about him.
He sent me a request on Facebook, I ain't even accept that jont.
Then I heard he was- he was  dying.
I was like, Eh, I should go on  Facebook and re-  get his uh,  accept his friend request.
And just holler at the dude just ask him, you know what I'm saying like,  you know just,  what he was thinking back then, you know.
But  you know, when you on crack  I guess  you ain't really thinking about too much.
You know.
I guess he was a recovering crack addict but it- at the end it-  it caught up to him  and shut his body down.
Kind of wild.
Yeah.
Um, one of the biggest traditions that we had  was our family  cookouts.
And our family reunions.
We was sitting on- When my father bought the house in Maryland,  you know  like-  me I really couldn't  tell cause it was just a house but seriously you know people looked at us like we jai made it.
You know what I'm saying, four bedroom house  uh, had a pool in the backyard.
And we was sitting on like a acre and a half.
So,  you know we would take up the whole block  with nothing but cars, cars in the front yard, cars parked in the backyard and everything.
And like  at least  I wanna say about a hundred people used to show up.
You know, all family members.
And we used to do that  every  single  summer  at least two to three times.
You know for a big  um, family reunion.
As far as our cookouts we would always have cookouts cause dad had paper, you know what I'm saying.
He had a good job he used to work for Blue Plains  in DC.
Which was a sanitation plant.
And um, at that-  at-  at-  those points in um,  in time and everything you know what I'm saying he used to bring home a-  a pretty good dollar  until he hurt hisself, he hurt his back in a accident.
And then he um, couldn't  work it anymore.
But uh,  those  times um, we used to have  little get togethers at our house  after church.
You know um,  I had a church over in Landover  called Wayside Holiness.
And uh, at-  at  any point  I don't know whenever Dad felt like it he would go get some crabs,  go get some chicken, you know what I'm saying, put some stuff on the grill and everything.
And uh, people would just show up from the church and just you know,  congregate,  have a good time.
You know,  everybody's sitting around talking about  good old times and  you know, he was a musician, they used to talk about music,  you know, new material that they wanted to do.
All kinds of stuff so those were s-  the traditions that we had.
Um-    Uh,  he would always decorate the house and everything for Christmas, you know regular stuff, Christmas, Thanksgiving was always good.
Uh, my birthday-  my birthdays were events  at the time, before  uh, him and my mom actually split.
You know I remember one time uh, my fifth  birthday  when uh, we first kind of like walked and g- got to the house  you know Dad had  all the bells and whistles  going, you know what I'm saying, I had  uh,  like four or five eight foot tables  in the backyard all in a row I mean filled to the top  you know what I'm saying with nothing but gifts.
I got at least  like a hundred, two hundred gifts that year.
Uh, we had ponies.
Dad got the ponies out.
Uh,  it was  one of my m-  most memorable uh, moments.
One of my most memorable birthdays actually cause uh,  we had a dog  named Duke  that got out and chased  the freaking ponies around the house and we had to call the-  he called the pound on him and got rid of him on my birthday.
Which was sad,  but  you know we had ponies and  I had to open at least about  a hundred fifty to two hundred   presents so it kind of  buffered my um-  my pain.
I would say.
That was- that was some good times.
That was some good times, man.
And uh,  I don't know man it was just-  he used to hunt a lot.
That was- that was something else.
You know he never t- I never was able able to go with him hunting.
Cause I guess he just didn't think that I was mature enough for it but  you know, that was one of the things that uh, he  used to do all the time.
And just to get with his g- hi- his mom  and his brothers  and bring everybody to the house like, Dad kept the family tight.
And um,  when we moved away from the house,  that's when it all kind of stopped.
I mean he still kept his brothers tight and his mom and everything but  just as far as everybody from the family I'm talking about people from South Carolina, North Carolina,  Tappahannock, Virginia  from everywhere used to come.
And those was just some good times, man.
Very good times.
Um,  my cookouts  that I have,  when I have money to.
I don't have money like my father do but  you know I would throw something at the house and have all my cousins  you know that I grew up with  the ones that can-  can come,  I would do that.
Um,  I really-  stopped really doing Christmas  all like that so I didn't carry that on but I- I- I try to do it at least with the kids.
And um-  um, my mom  actually has a cabin  in Virginia  from a time share that we all go to, all my brothers and all my sisters and everything.
you know and I- I keep that part tight still visiting my grandmother, still keeping my brother-  me and my brothers tight, and my sisters  and everything, make sure that I checked up on them.
That's like one of the things I know my father like-  every single day we used to go over my grandmama house and see her.
You know.
And um,  you just sit down and talk with just brothers and everything I- I keep that up  as much as possible.
You know.
I st- I still don't hunt.
Um,  I haven't tooken my sons- taken my sons  hunting or anything like that.
That's one thing I would like to do.
Kind of crazy that my daughter  is the one that wants to go shoot guns and shoot at stuff.
But um,  you know,  I keep those that- that type of stuff going  from what I remember.
And uh, just the  fun times,  you know.
Always smiling.
That was- that was- that- that was Dad.
Always you know  talking, joking and everything.
I'm a lot like him.
Yeah, I miss that dude.
A lot.
I miss him a lot.
Southeast.
Yeah.
Mom was from Southeast also.
And my grandmothers used to beef.
That was funny.
And they were old.
Even in church.
It just- it was just funny.
Um, we're all spreaded out now.
My sisters  live in uh,  Landover.
I got a sister in Virginia.
My brother actually live in Landover.
I got another sister lives in um,    uh-  uh, where's that?
Like  Clinton area.
Another sister she just moved back to Southeast.
Um,  I had found out I had two more sisters from my father  when I got uh- when I turned eight years old.
And kind of showed up to the house on the front door.
Like, hey open the door, w-  we your sisters, and I'm like, nah, I only got two sisters.
They're like, yes it is,  so it was kind of like a shock.
But um, they  grew up in DC also.
Yeah.
And now we're just-  we're just scattered.
You know, I mean we're not that far from each other.
Southern Maryland,  uh, Clinton,  Landover,  it's only twenty, thirty minutes, you know  from each other  driving, so.
I start- stay-  I stop past my sister house on- on my um,  ways home  from work.
You know I pass it every day- every day.
You know my brother  he comes over  and um,  I stop past his house also  a lot.
My other two sisters I don't see that often but we- we  make sure we communicate.
Make sure everybody good.
And my sister in VA, I don't really get to see her whatsoever.
It's actually uh, a surprise.
You know it's a blessing when I get to see her.
Any chance that we get.
You know.
Make sure that- that actually happens.
Well she's a  she- she- she stay rolling.
She don't touch down too much.
She'll come up here for a hot  minute.
You know what I'm saying like,  sh-  sh- just out of the blue.
Like, yeah I'm in town,  yeah I'm leaving town.
Like, damn yo.
You ain't even  call nobody  Let me know.
I just came through to see such and such, and now I'm gone.
I'm like, aight.
Yeah we- we stay close though.
You know.
We keep in touch.
No I'm actually the baby of the bunch.
Yeah yeah.
Uh,  I got a lot of everything  that I wanted.
I wasn't a brat  cause I didn't want for much.
Um, I had two nieces  that I- I grew up with.
You know and we was inseparable.
It was just  us.
Um,  I used to get beatings every day.
Cause I was just  a hyper  kid  you know.
But  I guess you know  just to have my older siblings  always watching out for me.
Like my sister made sure that I went to school.
My brother made sure I ain't get picked on or nothing like that.
My other sisters made sure you know what I'm saying I was- I had a little bit of gear.
You know, I wasn't soft.
It was-  it was making sure I was- I was- I was good.
So I had  these  people in front of me you know what I'm saying that were older  that I- I used to  be with all the time you know what I'm saying, hang around and- and learn things from.
I guess that's where I get my little-  you know what I'm saying the way that I move and  move about  you know, chill, laid back.
They wasn't rowdy or nothing like that.
They was just real cool and knew a lot of people.
You know.
Respect,  you know what I'm saying, my brother taught me how to respect my- my peoples a hundred.
You know what I'm saying, especially my father, my father really wanted a dude to play with anyway but  you know.
Just in case I  got slick  one day or something like that you know what I'm saying, my brother would jump on me before my parents did.
So.
You know I learned a lot from-  from just being with them.
You know what I'm saying, how to handle myself,  how to be on the streets of- of- of DC.
You know cause it's-  it's always a certain code anywhere that you go.
And a certain amount of respect that you have to show people  in order to  receive respect.
You know that's one of them things he uh- he put in me.
You know what I'm saying,  so.
That's- that's the difference that I see.
And my mother just  had a lot of time,  you know cause she didn't have to worry about my older siblings, they were all grown.
You know,  moving out the house, uh, had they own stuff going on in school,  had jobs, whatever so me and my mom just had a lot of one on one time so  she could focus on-  on me a lot.
You know that's why I was  so damn smart when I was younger.
Like I was-  I was very intelligent.
It kind of like went south when she l-  uh, left and  um,  you know, Dad  was going through his things  but he let me uh-  he let me out.
He let me out the door.
I guess you could say I was a little sheltered.
You know.
My mother was kind of overprotective of me.
But um, like I said when she um- when she rolled out  it was like no holds barred, it was just me and pops up in the house.
Dad had his females, I had my females,  and uh, he ain't really trip off of me being in the house as long as I checked in with him and let him know that I was still alive.
You know, I was out there just doing me.
Me and my squad.
Um,  my aunts and uncles.
Most of my aunts  that I remember, I had two,  they were um-    they were  in  church  all the time.
They are from DC.
They're from DC All of the- all my- my- my immediate family and  most of my extended family  grew up in DC, I mean the ones that  you know are from like  Tappahannock and  West Virginia and all that other stuff you know what I'm saying, they didn't  they only came through at uh-  at uh, events that we had  like at the house and everything but the ones that I saw all the time like,  all of my family went to the same church.
You know what I'm saying, we was in that church from the start.
You know, established like nineteen sixty-something, most of the people in the church  seen me grow up.
Uh,  I used to see  both of my aunts every Wednesday, every Tuesday,  Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,  Friday, Saturday, twice on Saturday, and Sundays,  revival times,  all of that.
Most of my uncles  were street dudes, one of my uncles you know what I'm saying, he was locked up  and got out, he was straight hood.
Straight hood.
Straight chill.
You know, um,  my other two uncles  one of 'em just drunk a lot,  and the other one he was like uh, a playboy.
You know.
And uh,  they used to  get along.
Him and my fathers they always used to squad up.
My last  uncle that I used to see all the time that stayed with my grandmother that got out of jail,  he didn't look like the rest of 'em.
Uh,  I guess he was from  some  a- a- uh, another  person, not my grandfather that I  never met.
You know what I'm saying, not my father's father.
But uh, they never ousted him whatsoever everybody was tight.
You know.
And like I said we used to go over in Southeast all the time,  You know, and see my uncle  there with my grandmother.
And how they used to converse with each other it was so  funny.
Like,  you  wouldn't even think that they was like   mother and-  and son.
It-  it was just funny.
It- it was real funny but they were really protective of they- uh, grandma- uh, of grandma.
Uh, can I be explicit?
Like,  you know what I'm saying, we sitting in the-  in the living room  and uh, my uncle, we sitting there  and my grandmother and him be watching TV.
And grandma'd turn,  and  the word nigga used to be  used a lot.
And grandma'd be like,  I don't need to be watching this nigga.
And  my uncle would be like,  my nigga turn on which ever you wanna see.
I'm about to go out smoke a cigarette.
Ah that nigga always going outside,  smoking cigarettes and everything, I'm like,  Grandma,  like, Grandma.
Even though she went to church she- she- she was- she was jacked up.
It used to just make me laugh all the time how they used to just sit there and talk to each other.
And like yeah, I would never talk to my mom like that but I mean they were so close,  they just had that type of relationship.
There was a lot of niggas thrown out there.
All the time.
Yeah.
Uh, my cousins  it was  one particular cousin that I grew up with,  that was my homie.
That w- that was my dude.
He was like my brother.
We was around the same age he had me by a year.
Uh, he grew up in DC but then they moved away cause his father was in the Air Force.
So they moved to Virginia.
And um,  he used to-  we used to spend the night over each other house every weekend.
You know he'd come over my house,  we sitting there, we playing Nintendo or whatever have you, you know what I'm saying just out,  being with my father, doing yard work,  all that.
You know we were really close.
And uh, he had another little brother.
And he had two-  three sisters  actually at the time  before they had moved over  to um- moved up, um,  Virginia.
But, uh, they went to the same church we did.
I had another g- uh, girl cousin,  she used to come through all the time with my aunt.
Like our house was the house  to be at like  everybody  no matter what  it wasn't a day  that went past that we wouldn't get  a visit from  at least a uncle,  one of my aunts,  uh, some of my- you know what I'm saying, one of my cousins, one of my aunts uh, daughters or so.
You know what I'm saying, every single day somebody was coming past that jont.
Just to see my father and my mother you know what I'm saying, sit down  daddy pull out the guitar,  and they get to singing,  you know my father sung, and he was like I said he was a musician,  and I would just sit there and just  watch and look  and listen.
Matter of fact my whole family always been in- in music  you know what I'm saying we was  most of the population in the- in the choir.
Uh, my brother  he played drums for the church and he also had his own band  uh, with my cousin who played keyboard who's a beast on them joints.
Got another cousin that  played drums when my brother wasn't there,  which was my aunt's  uh,  son.
Um,  the keyboard player at my church was my cousin married into one of my-  my  aunt's daughters.
Uh, the bass player wasn't  a family member but you know him and my father were so close and they played in all the bands together and everything.
You know you might as well say he was family.
Like that church was- everybody was family.
You know what I'm saying.
And uh,  you know it was  two particular-  two particular families in that jont.
Actually three.
And um,  you know my aunts and my uncles they used to make sure they came to church  My grandmother, my aunts- un- uncles never really showed up unless  you know what I'm saying, grandma made 'em.
Like if one of my aunts or something like that was-  was preaching,  you know they would show up  and everything but  you know.
Like I have a rack  of cousins.
Extended cousins, you know what I'm saying, first, second,  third cousins and everything they used to  just m-  make sure they just came past the house you know what I'm saying.
Chopping that wood w- with pops  and my moms.
Mom would cook  They'd be sitting there, they wouldn't leave about ten, eleven o-clock at night  every day.
So yeah, family was tight.
My top five bands  of  all time would be  Northeast,  Backyard,  Junk Yard,  Chuck,  and  one more,  Lissen Band.
And why?
Junk Yard had that Southeast crank,  where  it was just  this  sound and- and  them beats that came through  and it was like raw.
You know.
Uh,  just a total different sound from  the other  four that I named.
Um,  Lead talker,  one of the best,  and they was one of the  bands that came out  when uh, go go first was in the scene.
Um,  well you know after you know all the- all like Chuck Brown and  uh, EU and all them dudes,  you know,  Class Band, you know what I'm saying it was a rack of bands back then but one of the ones that I remember when I was growing up.
You know with Heavy One,  and Winko,  you know what I'm saying them pockets that they used to  play.
And just the scene you know what I'm saying when you went to a  a Junk Yard show,  somebody was gonna fight all the time.
You knew that  but  you know what I'm saying it was just a different type of party.
Uh, backyard was a uptown band  from Northwest  and their sound was just totally different.
Buggy and Sauce had  a different type of  them pockets and them sockets and  the music section  you know  was  just-  I don't know man it was just- made you move and the- the particular songs that they  choo- chose to  you know,  play you know what I'm saying it was almost like a-  it was just like a top forties band you know what I'm saying, you do cover music.
and their own material that they made you know what I'm saying there would be a whole nother  type of-  type of- of- of- of sound whole nother type of  scene and places they used to have.
They used so bring some- some nice chicks.
Ah, I can't r- forget about Essence either.
So that's actually six.
Like,  I have a lot of  top ones you know what I'm saying, a lot of the- the young bands out there was some of my favorite bands to actually go see also.
But those are the most  you know what I'm saying the names that you would  actually remember, like you could ask anybody about those bands  and they'll be able to tell you something about 'em.
Northeast  was considered more like  a Maryland band for some odd reason  or something.
You know what I'm saying cause a lot of Maryland dudes like from Landover  and uh, Suitland and all them  you know what I'm saying, they used to go see them.
But  that  sound right there was totally different, the pace  you know  was totally different.
Like, it  was kind of crazy how  you know the speed of what they playing  would actually make you move different  and put a-  a whole nother  perspective  to the sound that you getting and just uh-  Their music section was ridiculous they had a lot of  you know,  music that they-  They were almost like rappers  to me.
Cause  some of the parts in their songs were just,  you know, it was- was like-  And the way they were formulated was just totally different, they was like one of them put together bands to me.
Um,  Essence is one of the bands that I remember,  you know from the- from the early days.
They were just  like some of- you know what I'm saying, to me was like one of the pioneers.
And uh, their sound was more of a classy sound, like a more grown up  type of crank  you know,  and it was like, it'll put you in a whole nother  mind frame when you in there.
And they always had like  bad chicks too like, you would love to go see-  see Essence cause they always brought  you know what I'm saying, some of the best chicks out, you know what I'm saying.
Them chicks that was like, actually on money but  you know what I'm saying, they could dress.
And they just smelled good all the time  stuff like that.
Um,  Chuck Brown  the originator.
You know,  I didn't start going to see Chuck until I got older.
So he would bring like a lot of the older crowds  but  his  mix of jazz  with that go go beat,  man it'd just put you in the zone.
It was nothing like it.
First time I ever seen him was at the Carter Barron,  in a outside show, it just the love that he get.
You know what I'm saying, even white people  used to come see Chuck, you wouldn't really see the- too many white people coming to see Backyard and Junk Yard and stuff like that that wasn't really they scene but  it was so universal with Chuck you know what I'm saying, anybody could come and-  and- and look-  look at uh, Chuck.
See Chuck.
Lissen Band   that was just a part of-  part of my life at- you know what I'm saying, when I was in my twenties like, I followed them  consistently.
And they had brought a new sound  to go go which was like  a smooth type of  R&B type of  funky  ass beats  and  you know the music section when they had the horns and everything, man they used to just  put you in that zone and just the party that they created  you know what I'm saying, nobody was in there fighting nothing like that.
It was more like the grown, the sexy type scene man, it- it was a  lot of times-  good times we had  with that band.
And I knew the-  we knew the lead talker so we used to get our names up on the- on the tapes, CDs and everything.
And uh,  that was a ritual.
You know what I'm saying like, every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday  and Sunday  we were  going to see  Lissen.
You know.
So.
I mean you could find something that you liked about  all the bands you know what I'm saying, any band that you went to go see.
How they-  how they ride the beat, you know what I'm saying, how the congo player  you know what I'm saying was- you know what I'm saying, you got tight congo players you had some congo players that was jai like weak but you'll go  to you know what I'm saying, see the drummer  cause the drummer was tight.
Or the lead talker was vicious and the rapper was vicious or something like that you could always find something  out of some band that you like.
And it was just our music you know what I'm saying, it wasn't like  rappers come in and having a DJ in the background or something, this was a live band.
You know, it ain't too many people  to this day out there doing it like that unless they like on tours or stuff like that like rappers you know what I'm saying, they got their DJs and stuff.
But you know, you had a percussion section, you had a musical section, you had a horn section, you had the front line,  you know, bass players, guitar players, you know everybody playing a part.
And everything was just tight,  you just sit back and just listen to these dudes.
Vicious, and I'm a musician myself anyway so you know I had a-  a- a certain respect  for  the bands that came-  came up.