Uh, yes.
I do.
Uh, getting called Mo.
Mo, Bob.
Um,  we use- DC uses a lot of slang.
And we c- Um, young,  um, say nah a lot.
For real,  whatever.
Um,    slim.
What's up, slim?
Homie,  ace,  uh,  kill.
Kill, Mo.
Like, if you- uh, say like- Um, I use it like, um,  if you just- you do something that I like.
And I'm, kill, Mo.
For real?
Yeah.
Don't m- I- RD-NAME-2 I still don't understand that.
Cause I know growing up we used slang.
Our slang had a meaning to it like, uh,  you know exactly what I'm talking about,  oh that look tight.
Or bumping was my favorite.
Uh,   but now they take names and use it as slang.
Like, calling me Bob.
Uh, yeah.
Do I think they talk differently?
Yes.
I think, um,  a lot of people get lazy.
I caught my daughter doing it a couple times, I told her don't ever say it again,  and the word,  put a A at almost everything.
Daddy, uh.
Why, uh.
They do that a whole- well, a lot of females do-  do that a whole lot.
Put a A at the end of everything.
I don't like it.
I don't see it- And it was- growing up it was like, funny.
Now you as- you a parent, you was man, I don't want my daughter talking like that.
Because it carry over.
Especially during text.
I- I don't know what she does when she text other people, but she don't text me WYD.
You wanna know something?
Spell it out.
I'm sorry.
She get mad when I tell her.
Uh, cause sh- one time she text me,  WID what- WYD.
So I was like, what- what does that mean?
I don't know whatchu talking about.
Okay Daddy,  what're you do-  what're you doing?
They getting la- I think their speech is getting lazy though.
Really lazy.
Oh, psh, what?
Without a doubt.
Grew up saying that word.
Uh, it means-  know, bama could be the way you dress,  or you say something stupid.
Bama used to be the way you dressed though.
But now,  if you do something, so like if you- um,  you snitch on somebody, I'm saying, man, you a bama, man.
It's the way you dress and I guess j- some- uh, whatever action you do- you do that I don't like.
Yeah.
Yeah that mean you excited.
I hate that word.
I hate- hate to come off like that because- That means, um-  Ah, how'd I heard it used?
If you- if you was to- um,  if you was to aks me to do something then uh, say you was like, RD-NAME-2, um,  let me borrow a thousand dollars.
You got me guh.
That's how I've heard it used before in that terms as though, are you seriously aksing me this?
Nah, that's not gonna happen.
Or it- the same is you got me messed up.
It means the exact same as that.
Yeah.
Two different meanings.
Lunching means  same thing,  you crazy, you done lost your mind.
Loafing means lazy.
You loafing.
You loafing, I mean, you- either you lazy-  well, yeah, lazy.
Pretty much, yeah.
Joint?
That has a lot of meanings.
Um,  it's used it to describe a object.
That joint look tight.
Um, joint means, uh, in  couple years ago, um, something you could smoke.
Yeah everybody knows that-  everybody knows that.
Um,  joint can mean anything object.
Uh,  a gun.
It can be anything.
Something sound good.
A band.
Bands crank.
Oh no, no.
That and I've heard it used where, um,  somebody didn't smell well.
Your arms are cranking.
Yeah.
Yes.
But originally it was like, f- used it  to describe like a- um, the sound of a band, something sounds good.
That joint crank.
But now,  well, not now, I've heard it used where if your arms will smell, man your arms cranking right now-  your arms cranking right now.
Um,    my father used to say this all the time.
Um, if you can't stand tall  don't stand at all.
I think-  And when he first started saying it I used to laugh at him, I was like, man what is this dude talking about?
But as I got older I know that he meant that, um,  in everything you do,  be proud of it.
Um,  you make mistakes,  but as you make the mistake,  you're walking past the mistake, it's gonna be behind you.
Um, stand tall in everything that you do.
I mean, that's-  Not to say- I mean, I-  like I said, I never been in that much trouble.
I made few mistakes, but when I have,  I mean it's never really affected me, I was like I- I learn from it.
I don't go back to it.
So I think when you say that s- if you can't stand tall, don't stand at all,  that, um,  if you not gonna fully do something or fully like, get into something, I mean, this-  well, take a seat, don't do it then.
But in everything you do be positive with it and have a attitude where though  it's gonna get done cause I'm gonna do it.
I mean, cause I- I- I have a attitude.
I mean, I-  Do I think I can do almost everything, I'm not gonna lie, yeah.
B- I don't think it's nothing that I can't do.
And I don't mean that to-  to sound like I'm  like, better than anybody.
It just that   I'm not gonna putting myself in a situation.
W-  I- I say this, if I can't do something, I'm'a tell you.
I'm sorry, I mean, I'm not gonna put myself in a situation where I'm guessing  or trying to figure it out.
Whereas though what I'm doing is gonna affect somebody else, or affect myself, my job, or anything else,  if I can't do it, I'm'a say, nah I can't do that.
And I think I learned that  working at the hotel too whereas though  if a guest aksed me something,  I never said no that I can't.
Or if they wanted to do something  that I know they couldn't do, instead of saying no,  I would say, well, you know, that sounds like a good idea but what about this?
Give 'em our other options or more options  or find somebody else that can answer their questions.
So.
I think that's what he meant when he said that.
And I- I- that's- I think that's on my Facebook- um,  my- um, my saying on my Facebook.
Yeah my quote on my Facebook I think.
I think it's that cause I don't be on Facebook that much, but.
Yeah.
Thank you.