Today's date is October the fourth  two thousand seventeen.
Birthday is December the first.
Nineteen seventy-six.
I was born in Washington DC.
Um,  born on Bruce Place, Southeast.
Um, no.
Haven't been in that neighborhood in the last   four or five years  since they, um- It's not the  they remodeled.
But, I haven't been there in a while.
I live in, um, Oxen Hill, Maryland now.
Um,  wow.
I was born here and then left  when I was twenty  seven.
So I pretty much grew up in DC.
I went to Maryland.
I went to Maryland.
Yeah.
Yeah, PG.
No.
Uh, high school I went to, um,  RD-SCHOOL-6.
College I went to RD-SCHOOL-6.
I am the director of safety and facilities  for RD-WORK-11.
Yes, yes, um, for the past four years, I've been catering  on the side, for the last four years, yeah.
Um,  initially when I first started,  it was a favor.
That's how it started off.
Because I always knew I can cook  cause my mother's from the south, so.
Her southern cooking and my city  met.
But  how it happened was, a friend knew I could cook and wanted me to cook for her- her grandmother's repass.
I was doing it as a favor.
Um, but   when I was packing up and leaving,  her mom came to me  and then was like, um,  hold on I got something for you.
She was handing me some money.
I was like, no it was a favor for your daughter.
She was like, no.
Um, take this because you did a good job.
And then  a lot of her family members were aksing me, well you have any business cards?
I was like, what, no.
Cause I-   I don't do this r-  I don't do this on a regular basis.
So, um,  after that, I got to thinking, I said, maybe I should.
So,  I think she had another event like a birthday party and I came with business cards  after I did the party and I passed them out.
And I guess  word got out through them, they passed on cards to other individuals.
Other people started finding out I can cook so I been doing it for like the last four years.
And this was something I had never really initially  wanted to do  on my own.
That's all it takes.
Mm.
Yup.
Uh, my mother was born in Chester, South Carolina.
My dad was born in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Yeah,  yeah.
Uh, my mother sh- when she was- start working she was a, um,  assistant director of housekeeping  for Marriott.
Dad was  if it was a title, Jack of all trades.
He did construction,  um, and dad worked in maintenance as well.
Mm.
Um,  l- looking at it  I'll just say from other individuals from the outside, I mean,  to them,  it look- they  I guess  would see that as a bad neighborhood.
Of course growing up  in what they call like, the crack era which is, you know, from the eighties,  mid-eighties on,  um, I wasn't really exposed to that.
I mean I had a lot of friends  growing up that were  I guess you would say selling drugs or in the streets, but.
Uh, one of 'em was my older brother,  I mean.
But  I think  my personality was to-  I learned from what- my brother not to do.
I mean, that's the only thing I can say he ever taught me was- All the wrong he done  I didn't wanna dabble in it.
And plus I was scared of my mother so I-  Yeah cause- I mean, growing up  on Bruce Place,  um,  it was pretty m- It's five of us, it was five of us.
I have,  um,  a older brother, a younger brother, and a younger sister, but my older sister passed like, two thousand two.
But, um, it was pretty much my mom.
She was mom and dad at the same time.
And growing up  in- in that neighborhood, I mean,  that was around the time, of course,  no electronics  at all.
We was outside, all day.
I mean, it was violence in the- the neighborhood,  so to speak.
Whereas  that's what everybody was-  I guess  the gang thing was more so more fighting than shooting.
But,  I mean, I never dabbled in- in, I- I never felt the need to.
I never wanted to.
But  I think that  it's a lot of things that I know I wanted as a child,  but I was satisfied with the things that I had because I saw at a early age that  my mother was busting her tail  to support all of us by herself, so.
I mean, I t- that was enough for me.
Mm-hm.
Uh, f- uh, uh, basketball, football, tag,  um,  I was more- more so into sports.
I still am actually.
But  sports, anything then was sports.
And I think back then it was a lot of rec centers  we can go to.
Um, of course the Boys and Girls Club.
Um,  I don't know if you remember, it was a o- o- a organization called OSAY.
I can't remember what it stands for but it was like a- um, it was similar to the Boys and Girls Club.
Whereas though after school you go there to do activities  they involved you in sports, we went fishing.
And it faded out cause I think it was funded by the- um,  the government.
I think it's a organization that, um,  Marion Barry was affiliated with as well.
So it was r- pretty much in like the DC-  DC area.
Um,  that was pretty much it.
I mean, and as far as activities we played tag, football, basketball.
Um,  or  in somebody yard doing something playing music or something.
I mean, because  that was when    I guess, y- if you- if- if  you in a- like a closed in like, neighborhood,  um,  you knew everybody on the entire street.
And everybody mom knew you on the entire street.
So we-  if you did something out of order,  you got c-   you got corrected from them and when you got home from your mother.
But it- it was more activities then.
Um,  involved in  interaction with other individuals yeah, where as though now, you got your phone, or computer or laptop, you fine  as a child.
We didn't have that.
So we had to make up stuff to do.
Sit on a- um, somebody's porch playing that's my car.
It- when you decide to be bad, you w- I remember one time I did get in trouble.
It was like a wooded area we went up, it was like on a hill.
We rolled evr-   We used to roll tires down the hill into the street.
I know it was- I know it was wrong.
But still.
Yup.
Yup, roll a tire down the hill into the street.
Uh, the objective was to see if the car could stop to hit on brakes before the, uh, the tire came from-  I mean, I know I was wrong.
I know I was wrong.
Stuff like that.
Uh, throwing snowballs at the bus  when it droves past, I mean.
Uh.
Um, yeah but the funny thing is I never-  I never got a beating and I never got a punish.
Cause I watch what- like I said what my older brother and my older sister  all the trouble they got into, I was like, nah I'm'a do the exact opposite.
I've never b- Yes I'm a middle child.
And I have a younger brother and a younger sister.
But I never got in trouble before.
They used to say I was the spoiled one because I never got in trouble but I did what I was supposed to in school to the point where my mother was like, if I did something small,  to her it wasn't as bad.
Because I guess as a parent sometimes you weigh your options.
I'm not gonna  punish him that much, he- he doesn't never get in trouble and he does well in school.
Where as though my brother  skipped class every day,  got suspended every week.
So any little thing he done  did,  she was on top of 'em.
Literally.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, as a parent you gotta weigh your options.
As a disciplinarian.
Uh-huh.
Wow.
It- it wasn't- it wasn't- it wasn't me, RD-NAME-2.
I didn't do it, it wasn't me.
That wasn't.
I mean, as a child, I mean, you- you didn't try  I guess, you know, harm, you saw it as fun.
I didn't wanna harm nobody.
But looking at it now I'm saying I'm stupid, so.
Ah yes, it is, it is, so.
You made it worse.
Yeah.
Yup, in t- in traffic.
Town- it was a townhouse.
It was a town- it was a- m- uh,  yeah, it w-   yeah, rowhouse, rowhouse yeah, rowhouse yeah.
Yes.
The entire neighborhood.
The whole block of Bruce.
Because Bruce  ran into, um, Stanton Road, and went all the way around to Robinson.
And like I said from, um, knowing your neighbors, it extended from Bruce all the way around to Stanton Road, all the way around to Ro- Everybody knew everybody.
Yeah it was, um, at- um,    directly across the street was the junior high school I went to, it's RD-SCHOOL-5.
And they had a rec center, RD-SCHOOL-2 rec that like all the surrounding neighborhoods went to.
Stanton Road,  Bruce Place,  and, um,  like Congress Park, too,  which is like further down,  went to RD-SCHOOL-2 rec center cause every Friday  we skated,  or  the rec center have some type of activities there whether it was sports, or  anything, like, cheerleading competition  for girls.
Everything was there cause it was big enough,  the rec center was to hold a lot of kids.
Yeah but usually I figure during that time I'm like, what, ten.
We didn't, I guess,   interact in that directly.
It w- that was for like, the older guys like my brother at age like,  nine- from nineteen up.
Yeah, us as kids, they saw us- they'll see us, especially the ones that, you know,  they knew it wasn't their lifestyle, we'll  be in their area, hey y'all need to go.
Go somewhere else.
It was like that then, whereas though now, I mean, I would say that's-  you walk past people that don't say nothing to you or don't really care.
Whereas though back then the older guys, they'll see us, the ones- the guys-  the younger guys, you know, that- they know we into sports  and we don't deal in that type of activity.
They used to tell us, and I've been told that as well,  we're walking in the area about to go play football, no, y'all can't come over here.
Go back that way.
We knew what it meant, so we- okay,  we leave,  go about our business.
Exactly, yeah.
Or we shouldn't be in that area at the time.
Exactly, yeah.
In all the neighborhoods.
Cause like I said, everybody knew-  I mean, the neighborhoods were that close where  I can walk  across the s- like the, um, football field,  and I'm at, um, what's that, it's called Robinson Street.
Um,  and it's been instances where Bruce Street and Robinson Street, somebody from that area, from- somebody from my area  was- um, had conflict at the time.
And it's like, if you walk over there, it's like a five minute walk.
That's how close it was.
Cause everybody was into- And some are like that now,  I guess claiming the street that you're from, which I never really understood and saw the point of it, but.
Cause it's not your street, so.
But they were into that then.
So.
I- elementary I went to Malcolm X.
I went to Malcolm X, um,    Left there and went to Johnson  which was-  if I walked to school, it took two minutes.
So I had no excuse for being late.
Um, I mean, the most fun I ever had  was in junior high school, I mean because  in elementary school I was kind of quiet, laid back.
All I did was draw.
I still draw sometimes, but  that's all I did in the elementary school my mother used to tell me, was draw.
In the house,  if I'm not playing sports, I'm drawing somewhere.
But junior high school,  you know, the older you get,  the more you observe,  uh,  the more you take a liking to girls.
So,  that little shell you in, you quickly come out of it.
Um,  and I- and I think that's when I had the best teachers, I mean, cause  back then, majority of teachers were nowhere near your age.
Way older.
Cause if you figure you in junior high school you like, what,  fifteen,  fourteen, something like that?
Teachers was in their fifties and sixties.
Yeah, teachers were older and experienced.
And it was more- um,  more interaction with the kids there and in elementary school.
You know, they used to w- they had the, um,  the green light to discipline a student.
Whereas though n- Yeah,  praddle, I got it on my hand a couple times.
Um, whereas though now, it's the exact opposite, but.
Junior high school I think was my best years.
And from there, I went to  RD-SCHOOL-2.
I was supposed to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
But,  I mean, because of the, um,  what is that called, like the boundary rules?
Because I could actually walk to RD-SCHOOL-2.
But I wanted to go to RD-SCHOOL-2 because I heard it was a better school.
And at the time, my grades let me go there.
Cause I wasn't supposed to go there.
But because of my grades they let me go.
And I wanted to play football there.
Uh, I thought they did.
But  found out very quickly the exact opposite when I got there.
But I stayed though.
They had a- we had a better basketball team though.
Yeah.
Football and basketball.
Yeah.
Um,  m- m- just like at home I was a class clown in school.
But  it was to the point where I never disre- I did my work  all the time.
And I think that's why  a lot of teachers let- let me get away with a lot of stuff because-  And half the time I was making them laugh too so they couldn't get- put me out of class.
I was never disrespectful though.
But, um,  I joked a lot in class.
a whole lot in class.
I never got put out but I was one of the ones, you- you joking with me,  my work's done, your's not.
But you gonna get in trouble, I'm not.
And it was always like that.
And I think  I had so much fun  in junior high school and high school because-  And when I went to, um, RD-SCHOOL-2,  and I think that's another reason why my mother really wanted me to go there,  I didn't know nobody there.
Because everybody I knew from junior high school  and everybody in my neighborhood  went to RD-SCHOOL-2  because it was closer.
RD-SCHOOL-2 had to catch a bus to get to.
It w- wasn't that far, but still.
I didn't r- I didn't- when at that- out of that entire school I only knew like two people when I first got there.
At RD-SCHOOL-2.
Didn't know nobody.
And she thought it was better for me, I think it was too, I mean, because I don't think I was the type to follow behind anybody, but she just wanted to make sure that I didn't  follow that route.
Because it was nobody to follow behind because you don't- you don't know nobody, nah.
So, I mean, I- I- I loved- I loved high school though.
I- um,  my first year I didn't play any sports,  cause I was kind of hesitant.
Because, I mean, I've-  Plus you know, now I'm  kind of tall.
I was tall for my age.
So going there, I'm tall,  guys in the twelfth grade, some of 'em,  my- my height.
They looking at me like,   when you- when- when you get here?
But I was like, man I'm in the, um, tenth grade.
You are?
Why you not playing sports?
Oh, I didn't want to.
So I didn't play until my second year.
Uh, second year yeah I was.
Varsity basketball, football though, the football team was I felt-  um, it was a couple of players that was there  last year,  the year before, that should've graduated.
So,  stayed on the team.
So,  I played m- majority, um,  my last two years basketball.
I didn't play that much football.
I should've but I didn't.
Um,   I loved it, man.
I really really loved it.
Um, cause I think my-  when I was in the tenth-  One person I did know there, and I knew him from when I was in junior high school cause he was older.
I don't know if you ever heard of him but his name RD-NAME-4.
He went to Georgetown,  played for John Thompson, he- he was good.
But it- my first year there- Yeah he played- yeah.
No he played for the father yeah, he played for the dad- yes.
Yeah.
He played for the daddy.
Uh, cause my first year there  was his last year.
He was like real  like- real hyped up player,  from a, um, area standpoint.
Everybody was supporting him and was behind him.
And he knew- remembered me from playing  in junior high school.
And when he saw me, he was like, man why you ain't try out for the team?
Was like, I ain't-  nah, I ain't want to, I'm'a wait the next year.
But I love basketball, I still love basketball.
I still play basketball.
And I think the coach that I had there   we didn't really s-  I guess  see eye to eye on certain things because he wanted me to play a position I didn't wanna play.
Center.
Yeah.
Uh, yes.
Uh, power forward, small four.
I mean, because of cour- Yeah.
No I did not.
Because  of course now,  the height I'm at now, if I was going to the NBA I'm considered short.
Six four,  this is not that tall in the NBA.
Pretty much.
So imagine me- I mean, I- I knew I was kind of tall for, uh, high school.
I was like, man I didn't wanna play center.
I didn't because  center don't have the ball that much.
You get the ball occasionally when you in the post, I mean, but  I didn't wanna play it.
But now,  looking at it,  I shoulda want to play it more because me playing center  the average guy that was checking me was bigger and slower.
He saw that as advantage,  I saw it as me not getting the ball all the time.
So- Yup.
I- and at a young age, I didn't see it as that.
At all.
Uh, I'm a homer.
Yes.
All the home teams, Maryland and Georgetown.
Yeah.
That's all sports, I don't-  I've never liked another team that's outside of the area.
Definitely.
Without a doubt a Wizards fan.
Yeah, I think they gonna, um- Oh you did?
I'm- I haven't ?
I need to find when is the next one.
This Friday?
So they play Cleveland Sunday?
I gotta write that down, I'm going to that game now.
I usually go to StubHub, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah I- I heard, I heard, yeah.
Really?
they beat 'em by like what, thirty or something like that?
I think the way they ended the seas- season last year a lot of- a lot of people are I guess on the edge of they seats because they coulda easily won  and- and went on to the next series and played, um,  Cleveland.
This year,  I still s-  I still think they have the same chance.
But,  you know, Cleveland has restocked,  Boston.
I mean, all the other teams  they lost a lot of good players but they gained a lot of good players as well.
I- I think they chances are good.
I mean, I was real disappointed last year, though,  losing to Boston  in Boston where- Yes.
Hurts even more  because it was- Yes it was.
I was at that game too.
I was at that game.
But, um,  I think their chances are better this year.
I mean, that's- it's good to see them making the playoffs every year, because growing up  watching the Bullets,  you pretty much was going to the arena to watch the other team.
Because they wasn't that good.
At all.
Yeah that's when- well, you know, w- when I was- Yeah so I didn't know nothing.
I'm talking about the eighties.
Yeah.
At the Capital Center, yeah I remember that.
Eighties and early nineties.
Every year,  so.
Mm-hm.
I- I don't- I don't think Boston is gonna be as good everybody think they are, mainly because  Kyrie is a player that ha- has the w- got to have the ball, that's why he left.
He want the ball in his hands all the time.
And the type of offense that they s- the coach run, Stevens run,  everybody gets the ball.
And then they lost two players,  two good defensive players that went to other teams, so the chemistry gonna be off, I think.
That's why I think it's gonna be a- better for the Wizards right now cause they have the same core players.
They added a couple players, so  they should be better.
I- man, you know,   I don't like LeBron but as long as he's playing, he's-  he has to be a favorite.
I mean, that's how good he is.
And because  they lost  Kyrie but they gained  a lot too.
Derrick Rose,  he's gonna help.
Uh, you know what the biggest difference is gonna be?
He got somebody that's unselfish that will give him the ball.
LeBron.
Whereas though   New York, everybody, their whole offense was based off one on one playing, one on one, um, when they got the ball.
Carmelo,  he has that    He's a ball hog.
He's good, but he's a ball hog.
Whereas though in Cleveland, I mean, they got a lot of players.
Everybody just gonna get their touches.
That's why Kyrie- I mean, guess why Kyrie left, cause he wants to be the person  who has the ball in his hands at all times.
Isaiah Thomas.
Mm-hm.
Uh, y- know what, you're absolutely right because it g- it might get to a point your team has no identity at all.
Prime example when the Lakers had Karl Malone,  Gary Payton, and all- Kobe and Shaq.
They got swept by the Pistons in the playoffs.
Yup, and it don't work all the time.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes they are.
I don't- I-  I think it might- I mean, just cause LeBron on the team I think it might work, but  can the Wizards beat 'em?
I think so.
I hope so.
They coulda beat 'em last year I think.
Better match up than Boston-  Boston was.
Yes it was, yeah.
Mm, nah I didn't go to that game, I wish I was though.
And then they-  couple of months- like a month later they went to Cleveland,  b- beat the brakes off of 'em.
So.
Y- yeah, it is, it is.
I- um,  I mean, they're better this year, especially de- on the defensive side, cause the def- defense has been terrible  for the last  what, decade probably.
But I think- I think they have a good chance this year because it's no like, super team this year.
Everybody's losing to everybody.
But I think the games that's coming up they gotta take advantage of  and win.
Cause they play what, the forty-niners?
Game like that they should be dominate- And it's good that they have a bye this week  all the injuries they got.
I think they should make the playoffs.
Do I think they gonna go far  with the team they got?
I don't know yet.
Cause them- it's the same thing with them.
They don't have no identity  at all.
Especially offense.
Don't know if they a passing team or running team.
They just do both good.
None- neither one of 'em they do well, just  average at both.
No, I'm not.
I- I prefer to watch-  I- I went to the- um,  the Redskin game when they played Oakland,  like two weeks ago.
I had a good time, but for football  I prefer- I guess cause you get a better feel for the game by actually looking at it on TV.
I prefer to watch football on TV.
Basketball game, I gotta be there.
You can see everything, whereas though on TV, with the basketball-  basketball game you-  you miss a lot.
Pretty much, yeah.
Pretty much.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I ain't know you was into, um, sports- basketball fanat- I did not know that.
Oh yeah.
Oh that's- that's obvious, that's- Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh yeah?
How did I not know that?
I heard you bef- before but I didn't know you was that like into basketball  Well yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-2 I tell you.
I think-  and I-   I'm not saying it just because it's my family,  I don't think it's  a family on this planet that's close as we are.
We have gatherings  all the time,  at somebody's house.
We have a family reunion every year.
Since  the eighties, we haven't missed a year yet.
We have a family reunion every year, either it's- it's here,  in DC or it's in South Carolina.
But the last couple years we have it at-  we had it at Myrtle Beach one year.
We had it at Ocean City.
We've had a family reunion every year.
My cousins, you- sometimes people think we're br- like brothers and sisters.
Or brothers  period.
Family is really really close.
Really close.
And that's-  I have a huge family here in the DMV area,  and I have a huge family-  And this- well, this is my mother's side.
And, um, my family's huge in South Carolina,  I'm not that close  to my fam- my father's side of the family.
It's- I know a couple people with them, but not-  not that many.
No.
Well m- cause my father passed like, two thousand and-  probably four years ago now, so.
But-  but my mother's side of the family we are really really close.
We just had a gathering matter of fact, this past Saturday.
And my cousin she just moved into a house.
So she had a cookout  in the wind.
Pretty much.
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, cookout, um, because if she move or  what- what's another thing?
Somebody like-  some- my- well my cousin could call my aunt,  I mean, call my mother and be like, w- what you doing Saturday, and we're like, nothing.
Oh we- we gonna come over there.
We turns into  him,  his wife,  my brother and sisters,  his brother and sist- well his sisters,  uh, my other cousins.
And then it's just like a spur of the moment, never planned.
And it happens all the time.
We'll- Together, no.
Separately, yes, for the most part, majority of 'em.
Especially in South Carolina, they live church down there.
Yeah.
Uh,  we used to, we haven't done that lately.
Cause usually  if we have a gathering it's on like a Friday or Saturday.
We used to have Sunday dinner though.
And f-  everybody used to call it that still do.
At like my mom's house or my aunt's house.
We haven't done that in a while though.
Yup.
Um,  sh-   I been knowing her since like, the nineties.
She's like one of my sister friends  that-  It's- it's funny because   growing up- She's a little bit younger than me, like probably  three years younger than me.
But growing up,  uh, her and like, a couple of my other sister friends probably used to like me.
Sister hated it.
Sister hated it when they used to come over like, where your brother at?
Where's your brother?
Sister be like, why?
I mean, of course, you know, you got a sibling.
You is like,  you don't want nobody messing with your brother and sister, I mean, because that's your brother and sister.
The first expression on your face like,  ew, why- why you wanna, um, get involved with my brother and sister?
But  what happened was  that a couple a years ago-  cause her family and my family know each other.
Um,  her mom had a gathering  at her house.
And my sister went but I didn't know nothing about it.
So,  I think she hit me on f-  on Facebook or  she text me or something, asked what I was doing,  to come past it.
I went over there,  course we had fun,  we exchanged numbers, we been talking every since.
Yup.
Wedding was nice.
The wedding was nice.
I didn't plan anything with it,  neither did I wanna have anything to do with-   I didn't wanna have anything to do with the planning,  cause her sister is a- um,  that's what she does on the side,  like planning and events and stuff like that.
So she helped her.
And like all the- um,    the decorations,  um,  um,  the tablecloths and everything,  her and her sister pl- uh, picked everything.
And decorated everything.
I didn't take no part in the planning process.
Neither did I want to.
But it- it turned out really really nice though.
Um,  maybe a h-  close to a hundred.
Yeah.
Well I didn't- that's the number I didn't wanna go over.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, cause you don't wanna get to a point where your- um, your wedding is about how many people you bring to the wedding.
Because that  gets expensive So, no.
Wes, one.
Girl, she's fifteen.
Turns sixteen  next year, in August.
Um.
Yeah thanks yeah, I'd rather hear somebody else say   Yeah, she does, I'm not gonna lie.
I love her to pieces though.
Mainly because  I know,  um,  society has changed.
Like kids her age, uh,  fifteen acting like eighteen, twenty-one, twenty-six, and- or older.
That's why I'm thankful.
And I make sure I talk to her  every day or see her every day because  I've never had any problems with her.
Never.
She's a daddy's girl.
And I talked her to her at a early age as far as what I think  is important  in life  in general.
It's just stuck with her.
She never got in trouble at school, she always get good grades in school.
And then that's why I spoil her.
I don't have no problem spoiling her though.
Yeah, exactly, yeah.
But I- I don't just give her stuff just to be giving her- I mean, I explain to her, you know,  why I'm doing it.
Not just-  Cause I know she aks for a lot.
But I- I- she- she know the difference between  stuff that she wants and something that she needs.
Uh, no not yet but I know it's coming though.
You sounding like my mother.
She- no, she told me the exact same thing.
Yeah, yeah.
True.
That's absolutely right.
Mm-hm.
Hold on a sec.
My waitlist guy.
But, um, Oh yeah, see, but this- this the thing though, RD-NAME-2.
As a man, s- especially, y- your- your atmosphere on life and the way you see life changes when you have a child.
Especially when your child is a daughter, I mean, is a girl.
it changes.
I mean, because she knows,  and I hate to say it,  I hate every little boy.
I don't like none of 'em.
I know it sounds harsh    But I- seriously, I mean, I-  mean, I know it's just me as a father talking, but I don't  like mean it like- like, directly, but.
Cause I know how I was as a, um, young man.
They're worse now.
Yeah, and  that's why I talk to my daughter all the time about what's important, I mean, what's gonna be there as she get older.
And she don't need it now, I mean, it's- it's just gonna- as long as you're living it's gonna be there.
Nah.
I mean, but, um,  She probably- I mean, I j-  she probably has a interest in boys already I just don't know about it.
That's why- Oh n- oh, no I'm not.
I'm not gonna lie I used to be.
Oh yeah.
Of course.
But I wanted it- I don't wanna get- have it in her mind that-  the hate that I have for little boys  that she gotta,  well I-  I don't wanna tell him this.
I don't think I should tell him because he might get mad or I'm- I ain't gonna take it.
That's why   I eased off that a little bit.
And-  and trying to get to the point where she's comfortable talking about anything, including boys.
I might not wanna hear it,  I mean, but hey.
It comes with the territory, though.
Yes she does.
Where, I don't know yet, but she does.
Initially she does.
I mean initially when I aksed her she wasn't really-  Cause she in the tenth grade now.
She wasn't really I guess  that enthused about it cause I guess in her mind she was like, I'm-  I'm only in ninth grade, why is he asking me about college?
And I used to aks her all the time, now  when I aksed her, she was like, I'm going but I just don't know where I'm gonna go yet.
Whereas though like a year or two years ago, she was like, college,   Can I get through the eighth grade-  eighth grade first?
Yeah, so.
Yeah, so,  I mean, if she- she knows that I want her to go, I-  I think she wants to go, too.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh, RD-NAME-2 this was never initially on my career path  leaving college and in high school.
Never was.
I mean, cause I could draw,  really really good, and I wanted to be like a artist, engineer, or I be on TV playing sports.
Safety- And the reason I- um,  I got into it because when I was in school, I started doing security part time  for RD-WORK-5.
Um,  initially, I mean, I- I di- I'm not gonna say I was a expert, but  he- the guy I was working for thought I was.
I mean, because I was making decisions on my own.
That's w- how security p- pretty much is.
They put you in a position where  you can't make personal decisions  because your  personal decisions don't matter.
Every decision you make, you gotta be, how would it benefit the organization I'm working for?
I mean, sometimes, you might not agree with it.
But  how you feel don't matter at the time because you gotta figure  the decisions you make is gonna affect other people  and the business.
So whatever guidelines  the organization has  those what you gotta follow.
So I started doing security there.
Um,    St-  I'm not gonna lie, I started to like it  a little bit.
I mean, cause I- when I   first started doing security, security was looked at the guy with the mean face  standing in CVS telling everybody what to-  what to do and being mean to people.
That quickly changed when I left there  And I started doing security for RD-WORK-3,  RD-WORK-5.
Because, you know, at a hotel, they preach  like it's in the Bible, hospitality.
Every day, I mean, it's-  and I- I didn't really see security and like hospitality like, connecting together    until I started working in the hotel world because, of course, you gotta,  you know, provide a p- uh, secure presence by standing in the lobby, at the same time  you gotta be hospitable, too.
A guest walk past, how you doing?
Can I help you with anything?
And I think that's learned behavior because if you-  you- growing up, I mean, everybody don't have that personality.
You don't.
I mean, cause I was- I was a person- I used to laugh and joke, but was I open to like, having conversations with people  at a younger age?
I'm n- I'm not gonna lie.
No I wasn't.
But when I started working in a hotel,  and I saw that everybody  talk to everybody.
Guests'll come up to you and hold a conversation with you for a hour if they could,  about their day, their kids,  um,  things that's going on in the area.
I started to like it.
So the more I start to like it, I switched from part time to full time.
And within-  within like, two years I was promoted to like a, uh,  lead officer or something like that.
And then,  as the lead officer I took on more responsibilities.
Um,  I'm good at writing reports.
And I think initially that's what got me, um, promoted because  it was a instance where my supervisor  I guess she was older  she was inclined to technology.
I used to do her reports.
I used to do her reports.
And I think my director found out that I was cause he knew  she wasn't that good.
So he was looking at some of the reports and he was like, man no way in hell she wrote this.
It sure enough wasn't.
And then  he saw a report that I did and saw they were similar.
He never came- I know that's what it was, he never came out  and said it.
Until one time  she did a report,  well, she was supposed to do it, I helped her do it.
And he saw her and he was like,  good job on the report you did yesterday.
I'm saying to myself, I didn't do no report yesterday.
Then I got to thinking, oh damn, he know.
But I think- And after that I was- Cause m- m- I- I can say RD-WORK-3 was like, one of the best jobs I ever had.
I mean, because I got to meet like a lot of, um- Let me answer this real quick.
Yeah, he found out about the report and, um, he told me good job.
Of course,  when he first initially told me I didn't know what he was talking about, and then it dawned on me, dang, he knows.
But after a while, I- I guess the performance- um,  my performance,  uh, he took a liking to.
And then when  the assistant director left,  he aksed me to apply to for the position as assistant director.
I didn't really wanna do it, I mean, because I was like, man I-  cause I- I-  I didn't even plan on being there that long.
Being at RD-WORK-3 was like a stepping stone- stone for me  going on to something else.
But I was- this was like the third year I was there.
So I was there three years past.
Yeah, so I applied for the position, I interviewed with the, um,  executive committee.
And I got the position  as assistant director.
And my hours changed.
Instead of the morning I came in the evening because f the assistant director was also the- um, the night manager on duty.
Which means a- anything happen  as far as from emergency standpoint whether it a guest or anything,  they come to me aksing me questions.
Um,  I just- I love working at the hotel.
I mean, I- I've seen a lot,  good and bad.
Real bad.
The craziest thing, and I- I still- I don't still think about it but when I go past the hotel that cross my mind,  it was a instance where  it was a, um- And  I was assistant director when this happened.
I- um,  I was walking on the floor.
Though how it usually works is  so if a guest locked out of their room,  or  somebody needs assistance,  whoever's there they call security and we'll respond.
I was already on the floor and was responding to something else.
I heard a call over the radio about  a- um, a guest needs assistance.
Never said what for.
So I'm on the floor, I'm walking towards the room.
As I get towards the room,  one of the housekeeping supervisors walked out the room and said, RD-NAME-2 hurry up, hurry up, come here.
So I'm running to the room.
Soon as I get to the door,  it was a- um,  a older woman  like, frantic,  screaming and crying.
I was like, ma'am, calm down, uh how can I help you?
She said, my husband, my husband, my husband.
RD-NAME-2 I walked in the room,  her husband was just laying on the bed,   stretched out on the bed on his back,  mouth wide open.
I'm not a doctor  by any means,  but once I walked over there,  touched him, cold as ice.
Cold as ice.
And I found out they were there  on vacation  to go sight seeing.
It was him, his wife, their two kids,  and his mother.
So,  she told me that,  um,  earlier that day, well, that morning,  he said he didn't feel well.
His ch- he was like, chest felt funny, and his stomach was hurting.
So it was like, well, you stay here and rest, we'll go sight seeing.
So imagine they went to go sight s-  sight seeing, they came back,  and found him in the room,  his wife,  his mom, and his kids.
And when I get to the room, the kids were like, on the side   cause they got conjoining rooms.
And they had a housekeeper to t- to take them in the room cause they was like, real real frantic.
So, of course, all of us are, um, CPR, First-Aid, um, certified.
RD-NAME-2 like I say, I'm not a doctor.
I knew he was- um,  and I had a feeling he was dead, I'll say that.
So I aksed the wife, well, help me move him to the floor cause, you know, you can't do CPR on the bed because the resistance, so we moved him on the floor.
Um, but when I first got there I told her to call downstairs and have 'em call the ambulance.
Um, I started CPR process  for like, five minutes, five- five to eight minutes.
During the process, um,  they showed up, the ambulance showed up,  and they saw what I was doing.
They was like, well, keep going, cause they started setting up for everything.
So I- I was still doing CPR process until they took over.
Um, from there-  Course, the wife,  s- lo- she's losing it.
They took him to the hospital.
Um,  of course, he was pronounced dead  before he even got there.
But- um,  and that's the first time I actually-  I've seen- like,  from a distance though,  seen people get shot, or people die, but this was the first time I was actually this close  to like, a dead body.
And it stuck for me that entire week.
it was like rolling around in my head like,  dang should I-  what if I'd have got there sooner?
I mean, But, um,    it got to a point where  like I said, I was doing the CPR process,  it didn't work,  they took him to the hospital, he pronounced dead.
The very next day, I'm walking in the lobby,  I run into his wife.
She look like she was lost.
I mean, it's  explainable, I mean, of course she would.
I talked to her for a while, aksed her did she need anything, I got the front desk- Yeah, just hold on a sec.
Yeah.
Yeah, I s- uh, and she was frantic.
I mean, she was-  you could tell she been crying all night, she didn't sleep when I was talking to her.
I mean, of course,  I'm not gonna say I feel your pain because I- I have somebody passing me  as well, but that don't mean I feel the same thing she's feeling.
So I aksed her, I was like, well, um,  if there's anything we can do to help,  just let me know.
I gave her my business card,  cause I didn't have a chance to the day before.
We comped her- um, we just went ahead and comped their stay.
I went over to the front desk, and I talked to the GM  and, um,  we comped their stay.
They stayed for like another day.
Cause they- they was from-    I can't- forgot what city they was from, but it was nowhere near DC of course.
Cause I worked at the RD-WORK-3 um, downtown on RD-ADDRESS-2 by the convention center.
So, um,  of course, she- she said she didn't need anything but I let her know, well, I'm'a come back and check on you  later today if th- if- if- if that's okay with- with you.
Uh, she said that's fine, she was about to go, um,   get the kids and have 'em eat breakfast.
I was like, well,  I'll be downstairs waiting on you.
Of course, I comped their breakfast as well  once they came down.
I mean, when I- I saw her again when she left, she said she appreciated everything.
I mean, it's nothing really that  we could have possibly done to change it because she didn't know and neither we- I mean, we didn't know either I guess  he was sick,  so.
No.
I mean, just- Yeah he was sick and ain't nobody knew it.
Um, I would say it's nothing we  coulda done, we did everything we could.
And I- like I s- I- I- like I said I knew when I first got there he  was pretty much dead, but  I couldn't say that to her because like I said, I'm not a doctor.
So I had to go through the, um, proper procedures from a CPR standpoint.
Uh, I'm not gonna lie, it was mostly for her benefit.
And I had no p- I had no problem doing it neither.
I mean, that's the first time I ever- um,  first and only time actually  I ever had to, um, perform CPR.
No.
Never.
Never.
The-  RD-NAME-2 the c- the circle I hung around and still hang around  I really never hung around nobody that was- that I'm close to that got into like situations like that or  put theirself in position  to be in- in that situation.
Yeah, yeah.
I hang around a lot of positive people, man.
My closest friend is my barber  and I been knowing him ever since we-  I was like, ten years old.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, all of my friends- I have- really don't have- of course the p- other than the people here,  but like close-  close friends, I been knowing for decades.
I don't have that many.
But the ones- Yeah.
The ones I do,  we're really close.
Mm-hm.
I- it's- it's- yeah, yeah, it's changed.
The- the whole attitude has changed I guess.
I mean, I'm- like I said, growing up you s- you see a lot growing up as far as      who you consider to be  as trouble makers,  um, part of the bad crowd.
And these were always the older individuals  that stayed in a lot of trouble.
And they- they younger now,  a lot younger now.
Whereas though  of course,  when you had, like if you wanna call it quote unquote beef,  with another individual or another neighborhood,  you fought.
For whatever reason, like I said, I still didn't understand the neighborhood thing because it's not your neighborhood, I never really cared.
But, um, now, they- nobody fights anymore.
At all.
I mean, not that fighting was a good thing in general, I mean, but.
Grab a gun real fast.
I mean, I think the- the youth today, I mean, they have the right, I think,  um,  mindset as far as like, um, not being scared of anything.
Scared of anything.
But  truly misguided.
Have no guidance.
And when you have no guidance as a child and you not scared, you- you straight reckless.
And cause you, I guess, figure you-   you have the mindset it's no consequences for your actions at all.
You feel you'll never get caught,  everything you do you'll get away with and it's a reason for everything that you do that's negative.
Worse.
I think it's getting worse.
A lot worse.
It's no-  We had a - we always had, uh, a safe haven when we were younger, always had extra activities when we were younger.
Like I said the program called OSAY.
The rec center, it was a whole lot of rec centers back in the day.
Every corner it was a rec center.
Now, I mean, it's- it's nothing.
It's nothing to fall back on, and I mean, not  to say that  every, um-  Cause I- I- like I said, I didn't think my neighborhood was bad,  I mean, you j-  I'm- I'm never gonna be a person- and I preach this to my daughter,  you never be a product of your environment.
You don't have to be.
Just because you- you're in bad surroundings,  shouldn't mean that you should have the same type of mentality, nah.
Because the neighborhood I grew up in, looking at it now, now that I'm older, yeah it was, uh,  pretty rough.
It was bad.
But me being a person at a younger age, seeing that, well, it's- it's bad, but  that don't mean I gotta follow the same suit  as everybody else.
Now,  everybody's following everybody.
Kids are smoking at a earlier-   at a earlier age,  drinking at a earlier age,  stop going to school at a earlier age, I mean, cause it's no guidance at home.
Um,  and a lot of people use the excuse  that,  you know-   a lot of, um, esp- and it's happening with g- more g- girls now than ever.
Boys has always been like that.
That it's no like, predominant male figure in the house  I guess to show the young- young man, um, guidance.
I mean, I'm not gonna lie, it's not.
It's not.
At all.
But  it wasn't one in my house either.
I know times are different then, but I- I know mothers and parents are younger now,  but in my household, it was just my mother.
But, um,  like I said, I mean, to- I agree, I mean, not agree, but I- yeah, it's gotten worse.
It's getting worse.
And in my personal opinion do I see it getting better any time soon?
No, unless it's a drastic change.
No I- I don't see it.
I want it to, though.
Cause it-  Getting better to a point where  kids are more respectful,  they're staying in school,  violence decreases,  because it's going like, higher and higher each year.
I mean, cause you- you- you get to a point where  if you go to a jail,  it's more- the population- I mean, it- to me, jail is a business.
I- my father been told me this a long time ago,  that, um,  more kids are getting charges like, at a high rate for everything now.
Is it by design?
Maybe it is.
Cause I figure if you put    everybody in the same confined neighborhood  with no resources,  what g- what good is gonna come out of that?
No resources at all.
Only thing you putting in there  carry outs and liquor stores.
I mean, what- what are you gonna have to do?
You can't- It's- and it's hard to find a job now because-  Is it true that, uh, you- you need a diploma or degree to work in McDonalds now or something like that?
I think- Yeah, I mean, it's getting to that point.
Now is that by design?
Maybe it is.
It just- I mean, it's- the system in general I don't- it's a lot of things I don't agree with.
Because I've always believed in- My-  I used to think my father was a Black Panther because he-  he preached this stuff all the time.
It's a lot of stuff I learned from him  that we never got taught in school.
A whole lot of stuff.
Um, like the Statue of Liberty.
Um, originally it's supposed to have been of a- um,  a gift from the Fr- I think from France, a France that, um,  when slavery was abolished  of a black woman.
I don't know- I don't know if she was holding anything.
But if you go to the, um, Statue of Liberty now,  you can see that it was changed, you can still see the shackles on the feet of the statue of liberty.
I was never taught that in school.
Never taught that.
I taught- I- I- everything I've learned from my father I tell my daughter.
Cause I know they not teaching it in school.
Um,  and it's- Of course,  we get taught about the same- we- where we was in school we got taught about the same individuals.
I mean, I ain't- it wasn't really no big issue at the time, but now that I look at it- but I'm starting to learn more.
I- um,  people of color- color contributed  to this city  than ever.
We learned about Malcolm X, Martin Luther King,  um, Harriet Tubman,  um,  Booker T.
Washington,  um, Frederick Douglass.
No k- no in- no inventors, we really never learned about-  Charles Drew, that's the only one I remember.
But no vented- inventors  that we learned about that contributed to the city.
I mean, because you gotta figure-  Like, um, I can't- I can't remember who it was.
But anyway,  slaves in general invented a lot of stuff.
Because  why would somebody invent  I- I guess a slave owner invent like, a gadget or something to make them do their job better?
If I'm doing the job, I'm'a figure out a way myself.
Yeah, to make it easier for me.
And just that  if I see something like that, me being in the position of, I guess, a slave owner,  I'm gonna take your idea and patent it.
That's happened a lot.
I was never taught that in school, though.
I was never taught that in school.
But do I think ch- things are going in direction- a positive direction in DC  ch- as far as for change?
As much as I want it,  I don't.
See a- a lot of people think that-  Cause at first,  DC was  all black  for the most part.
Now they building these condos,  um, new developments,  and they moving a majority of the black people that was living in the area to PG.
Same thing.
You confine people into one area, with no resources,  what are you gonna expect to happen?
So-  and- and m- and me personally I don't think it's for our benefit they building these new developments because  if you go down t- Man, I- where- where'd I drive to?
I drove by the- um,  the wharf.
Haven't been past the wharf in a while.
I drove past it, didn't recognize the neighborhood.
At all.
And the stuff they're- I mean, that they're putting up, I mean, it's-  Of course they're gonna put in condos that  the average, um,  person of color  can't afford.
So,  we gonna move you out, but you have the opportunity to move back  in once we finish rebuilding.
I'm gonna tell you that  knowing that once we rebuild and you try to move back you can't afford it.
So now you have to move somewhere that's more affordable,  in a neighborhood that's worse than the one that we just rebuilt.
And nine times out of ten they have been moving a lot of people to PG.
They redoing a whole lot of areas, man,  in DC.
Cause I drove through where I used to live at.
It doesn't look the same.
Um,  I- I- I just don't think  that a lot of people, I guess,  black people realize exactly what's happening as far as like, the change that's happening in DC.
They building a lot of condos.
If you notice a lot of schools are closing, too.
A whole lot of schools in DC are closing.
Um,  and a lot of schools are getting overcrowded now, because  if it-  It's a school on .
I can't think of the name of the school.
Street, DC.
That just closed but around the corner, it's another school  that's still open.
Um,  majority of kids that go to that school,  have to go to that school because of the, um, the distance.
and the average person in the city, some of 'em  don't have a car to take their kid to like a- uh,    a private school or something like that.
Schools are getting overcrowded,  the teachers are getting stressed out because they can't deal with the volume of kids that they getting.
Um, they building more private schools and they building more, um,  charter schools.
I mean, which- I mean, I think it's good, but  to build  a- like a- um, I can't think of the neighborhood, but.
I know they- they tore down the school  to put up condos.
That's what happening a lot.
So, I mean, and- and do I think it's- in the long term is it beneficial for us?
No, because before you look up,  DC will look totally di- it's- it look totally different now but it's gonna get way  totally different than what it is now.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Ye- uh, what?
Yes.
Born and raised on it.
I still do.
I mean, go go music was- I mean,  of course, it started like the-  a lot of people know the seventies, it wasn't the eighties.
It's a lot of bands that we never heard of   that are not known or- or relevant now that started out.
Like Trouble Funk or, um,    t-  I can't think of the name of them.
But it's a whole lot of bands.
But  it- I became, I guess, interested in it because  hearing my brother listen to it all the time.
Um,  and, you know, usually at go gos,  it's our crowd.
And it can happen- it- you can go to- uh, to- uh, I guess- Well, growing up it used- they used to play like, rec centers,  um,    football fields or something like that.
And I just enjoy the fact that  we can go somewhere and listen to music for free.
Pretty much.
And that's how it was.
And I saw how-  in general  how it brung like, a lot of us like, together.
People you didn't know, because  if a band played  on like, Benning Road,  and it's a well-known band,  people from- it ain't gonna just be people from Benning Road that go over there to see that band play.
People from Northwest,  Southwest,  Southeast.
All the neighborhoods came here.
I mean, of course, there was some altercations, I mean, for the- the dumbest reasons.
But I think that's why they starting to fade it out and close a lot of clubs because of that,  what happens afterwards.
But I- I love- I love go go.
I listen to it almost every day.
My daughter-  Um, it's cause-  it's different  from any other music that you ever listen to.
I feel it is because-  Of course some of the songs they do  are like, cover songs  of other artists.
But the way they do it is totally different  from the actual version.
Um, it's more upbeat.
You can dance to it.
Like they take slow songs,  and make it a fast song,  which I think is good.
Um,  what makes it unique is  the fact that    there's  four or five  instruments, um,  coming together,  at one time to play one song.
Of course it takes practice  to do it.
Cause you can't- well,  we're not s-  yeah you can't now.
I think it's really really  unique that  in go go  I could be in a band,  your band playing,  I could come on your stage with your band  never miss a beat.
Cause everybody's in tune with ev- Cause of course, you know, in go go people do some of the same songs.
A little different from others,   but it's the same songs.
Cause I think go go is like, a- um, in my opinion it's like a connection  of instruments  and individuals.
Um,  just-  I mean, and- and you gotta figure you go to a go go,  you gonna be there for a couple of hours.
It's not just that you going in and see them play one  or two songs, nah.
A variety of songs you will hear one time from other artists that you'll- And then it's- and they do songs that they know you will like.
But I l- I love go go, man.
Now, um,  of course Northeast Groovers who's been around forever.
Um,    I like Junkyard and Backyard a little bit.
But  Northeast Groovers.
Yeah.
Um,   Yes I am.
Not as much I was as a child.
But yes I am.
Not that I'm a mumbo sauce connoisseur,  it's two different kinds.
Uh, it's one 'em got a more tangy like, tastes like barbecue-  close to barbecue type flavor.
And the other one is a little more sweeter  and more brighter.
One is the same color as barbecue sauce,  and it tastes like barbecue sauce a little bit like a tangy, like, Kansas City barbecue sauce.
The other one,  is the one when you eat it and it gets on your fingers and you eat it,  the color of the barbecue s- I mean, the mumbo sauce is still on your fingers.
It's like a brighter color though.
I still eat- Um.
Certain carry outs.
Or, I found out,  um,  you can get it at the grocery store now.
Cap- what?
Yes.
I got two bottles at the house ready to  And actually I- um, I s-  it was like a year ago for my birthday,  I went-  they had like a- uh, a expo at the convention center.
Capital City was there.
And that was my first time tasting it, I been buying it every since.
I love it.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Oh that was neat.
That was neat.
Yeah they do now.
Wow.
Uh.
You know what, RD-NAME-2?
The older I got the more health conscious I got.
I still go to the carry out, but not as much as I used to.
Like, to go get a steak and cheese from the carry out, I don't do that no more.
I don't do that no more.
I think I'm more health conscious now because I'm getting older.
Yeah it does.
Matters a-  matters a whole lot.
And my family has a history of  high blood pressure.
S- diabetes a little bit, but I'm more conscious now.
And, of course, if I want something,  I cook it myself.
So I'm not even gonna lie, when it comes to, um, cooking, I'm kind of arrogant.
To the point where if I eat something, man I can make this better than this.
I'm like that with all the food now.
It's just time  when, uh, we'll go out to dinner, she'll wait on my response   after I eat something to see, if I'm like, man, I- I don't like it.
But I- I don't eat carry out that much no more though.
I don't.
Oh I n- I've never liked coffee.
Mm-hm.
But one thing I wanted to mention though.
One thing, and I forgot to mention it, I think that did change my childhood.
When I was in junior high school  I actually had a- like a  if you wanna call it a job  after school  where we got paid a stipend like,  seventy-five dollars a month or something like that.
I was in a program called the- um,  the Ward Eight Youth  Substance Abuse Prevention Initiative Program.
Um, and they taught us how to be counselors.
And it was instances where  after we been there for a while,  we were one on one with individuals  probably  twice my age.
Um, telling me about their problems they had with drug addiction,  uh,  with they kids.
And you gotta imagine me, I'm like fifteen sixteen  listening to  somebody who's like, forty  telling me about the problems that they have.
And it's- I may- looking at it, I mean,  being in the situation never dawned on me.
Looking at it now I was like, dang I was  fifteen years old, listen to somebody-   somebody's problem, giving them guidance or what I think  they should do, or some resources they should reach out to.
And, um,  my mentor  a guy named RD-NAME-5 and I-  I ran into him like a couple years ago I been friends with him ever since.
That was one of the most positive people I've ever met, man.
Cause he was the leader of the, um, organization.
Cause it was- it was through, um,  um, U-  UPO.
United- it's United Planning Organization.
I don't know if they still exist but they was the ones that was, um, funding the program.
Um,  and it was like twenty of us.
We go there after school every day,  Um,  we got taught about, um,  drugs in general,  um, life in general.
Sometimes individuals come there with  issues at home theirselves.
We'll discuss it while we was there.
And-  Fif- Yes.
Yeah, and programs like that do not exist anymore at all.
Yup, it was.
Yup, it was.
And I think that was my f- When I- I was there for like a year, that's- I met him one- I met him like once or twice.
Cool guy, man.
Real cool guy.
But I bring that up because I think that  really changed my mind as far as like, um-  We do have a lot of problems in our city.
Me being naive at that age- Well, I'm not gonna say naive, really I  just really- I didn't really  see it as- as- as a concern.
Other than my family,  that was my concern.
But going to that program, seeing all these people with all these problems,  drug addiction,  uh,  kids leaving the house running away,  seeing it from the outside, all these individuals.
And  those just the ones I came in contact with.
I knew it was more, had to be more  that, um-   From then on, I always took a liking to like,  kids.
I used to coach football and basketball.
I've always wanted to be in a position where I'm-  I'm I guess  can play a part in a child's life  in any type of way.
I mean, because I ran into problems when I was coaching whereas though  it was a single mother, child's really really really spoiled.
No father figure in his life,  um,  really really good  at a sport  but had no guidance.
Every little instance  we had during practice,  temper tantrum.
Cussing, yelling, screaming.
And  I guess before he came to our program- And cause I used to coach at number eleven boys club.
It don't exist no more though.
And, um, Who?
Oh really?
Oh wow.
That's where the po- the police department- police department was there too, right?
Oh, okay okay.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-2 was- yeah he was a branch director there I think.
Or started teen, uh, sports.
He was?
Yeah cause I knew him before I started here.
I met him at number eleven, yeah.
But, um,   they don't have programs like that anymore, though.
I wish they did but they don't.
At all.
Yes it does,  seeing that you're not the only one that have-  have issues or problems.
It's people with issues or problems that  super exceed yours.
And if you in a position to help,  you put yours to the side.
And that's how I always been, put yours to the side to try and help them.
I love working with kids though.
Yup.
Yup.