Okay,  RD-NAME-5 I'm thirty-four,  in a week.
And I'm from Seat Pleasant, Maryland.
Thank you.
Okay.
Okay, my neighborhood is actually called Booger-  Booker T  homes development.
And, um, my grandmother and grandfather moved there  from Virginia in nineteen sixty-three to start their family.
Um, they had five children of which my mother is the second oldest,  and nine grand children,  of which I'm the oldest.
Okay.
Yeah, the- the- the neighborhood is just like one big family.
wherein everyone was kind of interactive with each other as far as child rearing.
When it goes back to like, it takes a village, it really was a village because,  you know, if you saw your neighbor trash out, you would take their trashcan around back for them.
Or  if you saw a neighbor, you know, bringing groceries from the car, you would- you would help that person.
And it was just like, almost second nature that  we did those things for each other.
Um,  so growing up in that neighborhood taught me a sense of family  and community.
We have very very strong roots.
She met my dad in the Air Force.
And then we moved to an apartment complex that was maybe like five blocks  from the house that she originally grew up in, and we stayed there for a while.
Then they separated and we moved back into our family home.
And I stayed there until  I was eighteen and graduated from high school.
Okay.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
Okay,  um, high school kind of defines you.
And certain high schools have certain reputations.
Like  Largo was a high school in Maryland that was the fashion school.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 that was more of the- like a academic school.
Um, so just depending on your neighborhood, you know, high schools are just- just- it's a huge thing.
It's like almost  your identifier like, I went to so and so.
And it c-  it connects you to other people, almost like  a military,  you know, sort of thing.
Um, RD-SCHOOL-4, actually my mom  was the first class that integrated RD-SCHOOL-4  I wanna say nineteen seventy-five.
I might be off a year or two.
But they were actually the first African Americans to integrate,  um, RD-SCHOOL-4.
And  from that point  of her class to mine,  um, I think we were the- actually the last class.
And after my class of ninety-eight, they went back to neighborhood schools, cause, you know, they had the bussing in the seventies to  do the integration.
And after the class of ninety-eight, they went back to going to neighborhood schools because it was difficult  for parents to be active in the schools because they were so far.
And a lot of parents in my neighborhood they didn't have cars, so  how could you go to PTA's or how could you go to a football game  when Seat Pleasant and RD-SCHOOL-2 is like fifteen mile  difference.
So, they decided- yeah, so they decided to- to, you know, allow us to go back to our neighborhood schools, which was good because it allowed us to be kind of interactive in the schools  as a community and also for the parents.
RD-SCHOOL-4 was known for, um,  actually our baseball,  which is where I met my- my husband, RD-NAME-3- my ex-husband, RD-NAME-5.
So we were like a great baseball team.
That's pretty much it, as far as RD-SCHOOL-2.
We didn't have like a huge reputation  in sports or fashion or the arts or anything, it was just mainly baseball.
It was all about baseball at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um, very mature.
I've always kind of been a little bit ahead of my time, so.
In high school I was very mature, what defined me was  I think my ability to kind of be a chameleon and blend with different people.
One thing that really sticks out about high school is my first job, my first real job that I ever got  was, um,  I was an assistant editor for the judiciary committee.
And I actually got that s- that job from high school.
The House of Representatives called my high school and asked for  a top senior,  you know, like a recommendation for a senior that could, you know-  would graduate and then move on to- to that position  in Capitol Hill and-  So high school was very instrumental  for me in just career development,   um, I think.
Can I stop?
I'm like I wanted to say something else but I had a little brain fart, so.
It happens.
Mm-hm.
Then after that I joined the Army.
My family is like military.
My mom and dad's military, my uncles, aunts,  it's just something that we do.
Um,  and so it was just my turn to serve and so I joined the US Army.
And I was there for four years, stationed in Germany.
And it was- that was a wonderful experience.
And I think that going to RD-SCHOOL-4 and  being exposed to different ethnicities  kind of prepared me for going into the Army because you have people  from different, um, economic backgrounds, different races,  different parts of the country.
It's almost like, uh, the same melting pot that is Washington DC was kind of like the Army.
So I think, you know, being from this area  and then also, you know, my school allowed me to be able to again be that chameleon  and be able to kind of just blend and fit in,  um, in that  st- highly stressful environment.
Okay.
Absolutely.
Um, DC had a nickname of Chocolate City.
And my new nickname for DC is diversity city  because it's so much diversity in DC where  as it used to be predominantly African American in a lot of  areas in DC.
Like for example where we are on Benning Road.
H Street was predominantly African American owned businesses and there's just been,  um, just this trend of change.
And I think now it's more young professional entrepreneurs  that are from different races and not just African Americans.
And  I don't really know how I feel one way or another about it.
I appreciate  being able to go out locally.
And have that diversity of restaurants or diversities of night clubs and just hang out spots.
Whereas before where we did- didn't really have as much because it was predominantly African American.
So I do appreciate the- the cultural change  that this whole trend has brought to the city.
And- um, and I see a lot of clean up which is good, a lot of abandoned buildings and abandoned  restaurants are being, you know, rejuvenated and r- and  whole neighborhoods are like  being rejuvenated, so that's exciting.
Just to be a part of that change where it's kind of like  a new breath is being breathe into the body of DC, so.
It's exciting.
Mm-hm.
Union Station was the spot to be   when I was younger.
Um, which Union Station is in- is in Northeast DC actually not too far from where we are now.
And, you know, you would dress up on a Saturday, put your best clothes on and get fly as we call it,  And get on the subway and just hang out in Union Station.
There was a movie theater there,  pizza parlor,  um, you name it, it was there.
You know, if you wanted to shop,  you know, catch a movie, um,    eat or just hang out and look for boys, which is what we did.
So that was the s- that was the spot.
Um, another-  another hot spot was Crystal's Skating Rink, which is actually on Branch Avenue, and this is in Prince George's County.
Um,  just outside of DC, Southeast DC, and that was another  like, hot spot.
You would do the same thing, on Saturday morning you would clean the house up,  because we couldn't go out if we didn't clean up.
That was the rule, you know, you clean up first  and do all your chores and then, you know, you would get your best outfit and hop on the subway and just-  and just hang out.
But  I think that back then,  the difference that I see now with the young- younger people and- and when I was a teenager is that we were more active.
We went bowling, we went skating, um, we didn't mind walking places.
We didn't have a pick up and drop off person, like  cause a lot of parents didn't have a car so we walked.
We walked to the swimming pool in the summertime.
If it's- it's a mile, like, we were young.
Now I just see more of  kids being more introverted.
You know, being inside on computers and  we were just more interactive I think back then.
And that's the one thing that I-  that I can say  from the past fifteen years that I don't like as far as  the trend with young people.
I think that they're just more introverted.
And I think that really hurts them in terms of  being communicators.
And knowing how to- Especially, you know, in a- in- in the work force, just being out and being a team player.
I think if you're  always alone or if you're relying on electronics, then when it comes time to be a team player,  and be vocal and kind of roll your sleeves up,  that's like a skill that's lis- that's lacking  now.
Oh yeah.
Uh-huh.
Ugh the spot.
That is the spot.
And then you know about go go.
So that is the heartbeat- Okay.
Now this is just from- from- from my position.
Go go is the heartbeat of the city.
Um,  and it's just something that's kind of inbred and it's like the love for the Washington Redskins.
If you're from DC,  you've heard of, danced to, or been to a go go.
It's just  you have to.
Um,  and I think that  it connects us also, like if you wanna go back to about the communities.
The DC area is very like, neighborhood focused.
And so when you do go to a go go it's-  it's like, repping, repres- they call it repping, representing your neighborhood.
So,  you may have, you know, people from Southeast and then you'll have Seat Pleasant and you'll have Landover and all these different  sections of the city that go out together in groups.
And you just- you represent your neighborhood, um,   there you may like get a shout out from who's ever  performing.
But  I think go go is something that- that connects us, the music  as a city.
And-  and that spans generations because my grandmother used to go see Chuck Brown.
And  rest in peace Chuck Brown, the godfather.
And I went to go see Chuck Brown, and my younger sister knows about Chuck Brown, so, I mean, it's just like a generational thing.
Like again I compare it to the level the Redskins at.
If you're a Washingtonian or,  you know, a Prince Georgian, or even Northern Virginia,  you have gone to a go go  in your lifetime.
And it's just something that's in us.
I'll tell you a funny story.
I was in the- the army, all the way in Germany.
And so I'm missing home, and so I'm like, you gotta send me some go go CDs.
So my family sent me over some go go CDs and I'm playing it in my dorm.
And I'm getting knocks on my door and it's like, people from the area  that's like, I didn't know you were from DC.
And it's-  it was just like,  we're coming to join this room, and they hung out in my room and we listened to go go.
And then everybody else is like, what  is that?
What are you listening to?
So, it- it's definitely a- a connector I think for- for folks in this area.
Rare Essence is my favorite group.
Rare Essence is, um, a very well known go go band.
They've had some commercial success.
I- not as much as Chuck Brown.
He's been the biggest, um,  crossover  act that we've had in that genre.
Um, but Rare Essence is kind of what I would consider grown and sexy.
It's not as rough as the new go go music is and, you know, it's just kind of chill so it fit my personality.
Backyard.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Well that- we'll have to go out to a go go, RD-NAME-2.
I need you- I need you to get the whole experience.
No, I mean, the whole experience, it's just the music is intoxicating and I think because it's so percussion driven.
It just- it almost to me is like  African drums.
Like it just-  it touches your soul.
I can't really explain it, it's something you have to experience.
And once you experience it,  you'll get it.
Now that I don't know because I'm not a clubby anymore.
Um, I'm a ex-wife and so I was really domestic for a long period of time and I just-  I don't go out as much as I used to.
But I do know that Adams Morgan was really popular  for different go go bands.
And they play all over,  um, all over the city and Maryland, so.
It's just a matter of going on the website and checking it out.
But I think we should do it.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
What is that?
Yeah.
And they do a lot of covers, they cover a lot of like, R and B songs, um, that you hear on the radio, and so  that makes it a little relatable for folks that have never heard of it.
Because you-  you do know the song, so.
I think there are really some talented people.
Um, and I really-  I'm surprised that it didn't take off  the way that I thought it would have, because it's-  it's really, uh, a unique genre of music.
And even though I know it's just  kind of a Washin- Washington DC area thing,  when I've let other people hear it from other- you know, other regions they- they've k- enjoyed it, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The jazzy- the jazzy- I call it like, jazzy go go, I like that.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Mm-hm.
It's unique.
It's okay.
Exactly.
Okay.
Teeny boppers.
It's a little nerve wracking.
Um, as a kid  I had an allowance, so McDonald's.
As an adult The Oceanaire when someone else is paying.
Um,  and- a- I- you know, I really-  Morton's, Morton's Steakhouse  was a favorite, Ruth Chris is a favorite.
Um, The Oceanaire, of course Ben's Chili Bowl.
Oh,   right down the street, Horse and Dickie,  which is the famous fish spot that  they used to have a line wrapped around two blocks just for  a fish sandwich because they were that good,  um, at one point.
So we have like little hole in the wall spots that are really really popular,  um, in the city.
And then, you know, some I would say four, five star restaurants that are actually nice too, so.
It just really depends on the mood for me  as far as, you know, what I want.
But  I know that I can go to a mom and pop and really get some great food in DC.
I- it's almost like New York because it's a lot of variety,  um,  as far as food.
So those are my favorites but I'm- I'm so open, I'll go anywhere.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
Keith and Sons, um.
That's actually in Seat Pleasant near my house on MLK, which is probably  two miles from here.
Um, they've been in business for about  thirty years.
Um, so I actually grew up on them, I would walk up to Keith and Sons.
And they do soul food.
They're very very popular,  um, in the area as well.
Kind of like Horse and Dickie  are with fish they are with soul food.
Um, Levi's is another soul food spot.
Um, and then of course we have the carry outs, we have our Chinese carry outs that we love.
Um,  that are on every corner.
Yeah, sometimes two on one corner.
Um, and it's- so I really would say like growing up, those are the places that I would go because it was inexpensive.
So I probably would go to  Like a Keith and Sons and go grab  a burger as opposed to McDonald's because it was like a real burger.
Like,  a house burger.
If you ever seen Eddie Murphy Raw.
Like a house burger.
You gotta wa-  I'm'a get you hip, RD-NAME-2.
Like, a house burger.
A burger that your mom makes that she put-  puts eggs in it  and onions and  like a homemade burger.
Like one of those burgers.
So if you just want that- that down home  grandma just cooked dinner sort of feel you would go to Kei- you definitely would go to Keith and Sons.
Mm-hm.
No.
It was kind of unspoken that you did not go into Virginia.
Um,  Virginia is-  was a little different than Maryland and DC in terms of young black folks hanging out.
You would get-  it was a lot of racial profiling.
Um, even in the malls, like Pentagon City,  or, um,  I forget the other mall that's-  that's in Alexandria.
But it was a lot of racial profiling in Alexandria, and we just did- we did not hang out there.
Once I got older,  and I had a car, you know, I would drive, but as a teenager on the subway,  going to northern Virginia you just didn't do it.
It-  well, one thing about- this is just Washington DC,  for a person that lived in Maryland,  if you a Washingtonian you would stay way out in Maryland.
For some reason,  people that lived in DC during the time that I grew up thought that Maryland was just this far place.
And then I'm like, I'm from Seat Pleasant like I can literally spit from my house to your houses, like,  just that one line, just that boundary line.
So for me, it was kind of acceptable.
But maybe for a person that lived in Bowie like where I went to high school, they really didn't go into DC because  to them it was dangerous.
Um, and then DC they didn't go into- they didn't go out maybe past Landover  because of public transportation.
How would they get there?
They didn't have a car.
Their parents didn't have cars, so we rely heavily on public transportation.
And if a bus didn't go there, neither did you.
And that was kind of the- the unspoken rule.
Um, and then certain places you just did not go  like, you know, in DC in the nineties.
Um, I would say I lost probably seventeen friends to- to-  gun violence, to street violence.
And certain neighborhoods you just did not go in for any reason  at all.
It was just that dangerous.
And I ca- I do see a change, um,  in that which is a good thing,  as far as the crime in- in these neighborhoods where you can't even walk into a neighborhood without,  you know,  a person harassing you like, why are you here, who are you here to see?
So that whole  I guess, um,  era has kind of died off which is  a good thing, because DC was very very dangerous at one point.
It really was.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Absolutely.
Um,  I was in a car  with some friends  and we were in a neighborhood, you know, just kind of hanging out.
And  all of a sudden,  you know, it was just like, gunfire.
And I'm thinking it's like maybe a- Cause it sounds like a firecracker.
But  not that many firecrackers.
And so I'm ducking, I'm like telling my girlfriend, you know, we need to duck.
And at that moment,  I think kind of changed my life and the- and the course of my life  because I used to like hanging out like with bad guys.
But  after that night  of experiencing that where I literally thought,  I don't know where these bullets are coming from, I don't know where they're-  who they're directed to,  but I know that I'm in the middle of it and I should not be, I really don't have a reason to be here, why am I here?
And so I started to question myself  and the direction that my life was going in, and it was kind of like a turn around point,  uh, for me.
Like sixteen.
Up like sixteen and-  Because it was cool to hang out in DC even though I was from Maryland  and know like  right there on the District line, hanging out in DC was cool.
DC kids were cooler.
Um, they- they could stay out later, they dressed different.
They had, you know, more freedom  than we did.
And so hanging out in DC was like the thing to do, but it was just so dangerous in the nineties.
So it is a blessing  that I am still here and able to-  to talk about it because a lot of my friends are not.
Uh-huh.
Oh yeah, I'm smiling now, I'm thinking about the skating ring, I'm thinking about, you know, just going to the go gos and, um,  hanging out with my friends and then,  you know,  the band members in the go gos.
It was kind of the it thing to- if you knew a band member.
And that means that they would shout you out, or it was kind of like a- um,  an acceptance sort of thing.
And I had that, and I was very popular  growing up.
So I'm just, you know, reminiscing in my head about  just those little days where, you know, like I said, we may have walked to the swimming pool  and hung out and had fun, and- and we weren't scared.
You know, and we- it was actually just enjoying a childhood,  so.
There's definitely some good memories, um, as well as bad.
And more- more good than bad.
More good than- Mm-hm.
After Army was marriage.
I came home,  actually my dad passed away and I came home.
Um, I didn't re-enlist.
Because as the oldest I just felt so responsible to come back and kind of be a leader to  my younger siblings.
Um, so I came back to the states,  and, um,  I got married.
I married my high school sweetheart from RD-NAME-4 that played baseball.
And, um,  we bought a cleaning franchise, I was a business owner  for a while.
And, um, enjoying married life and just,  you know,  kind of putting down my own roots.
Um, and unfortunately that n- didn't work out.
And then after that I was just kind of in a- a period of like a hiatus, just like, what're you gonna do, what do you wanna do?
And I always would talk to my ex-husband about me either starting a non-profit  or working for a non-profit.
That's been like, my passion since  I can remember, you know, just always being of service.
Because like I said, that's  coming from the neighborhood that I came from, joining the military, that's just what I've always done was give back.
And, um, I felt that I really had a story to share  with a lot of young girls.
And then also to just show them that you can come from  very humble beginnings but that doesn't mean that you have to be a product of your environment.
And you can get out and, you know, you can join the military.
Or you can get married, you don't have to just be, you know,  a baby's mama.
You know, you can be a wife.
You can  you can be a business owner.
Even though all of these things didn't necessarily  work for me,  I was able to experience them.
And I think that  it makes me relatable.
And then I got the job at the Boys and Girls Club, and  here I am.
Sorry.
Um,  I am the executive as- the executive administrative assistant to the regional vice presidents, RD-NAME-1 and RD-NAME-1.
Um,  I love my job.
I like that I'm making a difference even if it's from the background and not necessarily right  out front and directly interacting with the children because what I do is very important  in terms of, um,  grants that we receive and-  and how our board members, um, fundraise for us.
So it's a very important job, it's highly stressful.
Um, I love my coworkers.
I think my work environment  makes me work harder.
Because I'm not just working hard by myself, I can look to my left or my right and see a person working  equally as hard if not harder.
Um, and it- it gives you a reason to get up in the morning because it's like, you're not doing it alone.
And if you ever are in a position where you're drowning, the organization that I work for  we help each other.
I mean, and it's like, we help each other until we get it right.
It's not like, okay I'm just gonna show you this and then I'm going back over to do my thing.
No, I'm gonna stay there with you  until we figure it out together.
And that's  been very different for me, I've never worked in an environment where people cared  so much about one another,  just as much as they do about the mission, so.
It's a- it's a great-  a great work environment, like I said.
Our mission is outstanding, I believe in what we do.
Of course there are some changes, um, that I would like to see, but who wouldn't  anywhere?
But I think that one thing that I can say,  is that we do identify problems that we have, and we try to collectively come up with a solution  from- from all levels.
And it's not just the leadership that are saying, hey this is what you're gonna do.
Like, I feel that we do have an input  in what goes on here.
And that's just been very different than any other  work experience that I've had, so.
My most rewarding moment was, um,  a few months ago, maybe six months ago, they-  we were doing res- restructuring our organization.
And my original position was the administrative analyst,  which kind of phased out.
And I had to  apply for another position.
Um, and I want- I wanna say this was challenging and rewarding, this is gonna be both.
Because, um,  I was competing again-  against a person that I admired  and I respected  and I had worked closely with  in the past.
And, um,  she and I both  interviewed for the same position.
Um,  I was  offered the position,  and she's moved on to do other things.
Um, it was rewarding  for me in a sense that  they recognized the things that I had done in the past which is why they offered me the position.
And it was just challenging because  I wanted it but I wanted her to get it at the same time and, you know, it was just almost like  just take it I don't want it sort of thing because I knew that she was just as deserving  as I was.
Um, so that was the most challenging thing that I've experienced here.
And then  it was humbling.
It was humbling because it taught me that  you can do stellar work but, you know,  Anybody's job is- is- is- is up for grabs.
Like, it's not- my foot- my feet are not in cement here.
And so that kind of made me  step it up even more in terms of  working outside of my job responsibilities and- and teaming up with other people  and making myself a viable member,  um,  of my team.
Indeed.
Mm-hm.
Um, right now I'm going to school online for my associates degree.
I've been going back to school for about  three years now.
It's just  being a working adult  and then  I was married, I hadn't divorced yet.
And then we had a business, it was just  overwhelming  for me to do all of that  and focus on school.
Um,  if one thing that Boys and Girls taught me- I know that we- we're- we're going past the work, but I just wanna say they taught me how to prioritize.
And now, um,  I think I'm more focused  and I'm able to prioritize, I'm able t- to do project management.
So going back to school this last time  has been a lot easier on me  than it has in the past because I'm able to  like I said, prioritize my task and actually make time for school.
I'm thinking that, hey RD-NAME-2 you're smart, you know, it's online, it'll be easy.
No it is not.
I think it's actually harder to go online than in the classroom because  you have to be able to be focused,  you have to be disciplined, you have to put in that time.
You don't have a teacher in- or instructor in front of you,  you're at home doing it.
So the cell phone has to go off,  the TV has to go off, the home phone has to go off, you may even have to  eject people out of your space and like, look, I really- this is what I need to do, and commit yourself.
And it's kind of hard to do that when you're in a home environment  because there's so many distractions.
I'm- but I'm gonna do it, I am really focused on  getting a degree  because I think that  I need it.
And- and it's no way I can preach the importance of education to my family members,  and to the children that we work with if I don't have it myself I just believe in leading by example.
Um, and it's just time,  it's really time,  so.
Business administration.
Mm-hm.
That-  my- my book is still being written.
Like, I'm not sure.
Um,  I love it here and I would like to grow in this organization,  but it just really depends on where we are as a organization.
I can't  say what my- I would love to be  actually.
To be a CEO.
Um, but  it just really depends on- on  the organization and  how we are with our restructuring, that really depends on my future here  at the Boys and Girls Club.
I would love to have a future here.
I enjoy working in youth development.
I actually would like to be more involved on the program side,  um, as well as, you know, the support.
But I would also like to be more involved  with the kids.
More involved, um,  with the programming,  the volunteer piece of it.
I would like to kind of do-  have a position where I'm kind of touching  all bases at once.
Um, because the children really make me get it.
Like when I see them in the morning,  when they come through the office.
Um,  it's just like, this is why I'm doing it.
It's a constant reminder of  why am I stressed out?
Okay and I see those smiling faces and it's like,  we're doing it because you wanna give them  better opportunities.
Um, so  if I could have a position here where I kind of  touched on all of those- all of those- all of those pieces at once,  I think that that'd be the ideal position for me.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
And it's gonna be there, on every job description.
Know that.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Public speaking.
Um, I think that I have,  excuse me,  very good ideas, but  sometimes when it comes to articulating those ideas,  um, I fumble and stumble.
and I don't want to- that- I want to be at a place where  I'm communicating effectively.
And I think that  the reason why I m- reached out to you as a mentor is because I see you do that  on a- on a daily basis.
And  I read somewhere, I think it was Oprah,  or somewhere that successful people have mentors.
And if you see a person that's doing something  the way that you wanna do it,  reach out to 'em and say, hey, you know,  I wanna know how you do that,  and I wanna do the same.
And I think that it's important as women  that, you know,  we can do that to one another.
Especially African American women, that we can pull one another up.
Or where, you know, I may have a strength  and that's your weakness that we can work together and team together, you know what I'm saying, to- to-  to make that be your strength as well.
And  like I said that would be one area that I can say I am lacking in.
Um,  I c- I write very well.
I do my job well, but  m- sometimes my job requires me to speak,  my job requires me to instruct.
And I don't think that at this point, the point where I am now I'm doing that as effectively as I should be.
And I really want to.
So, one thing that I'm gonna do is join a toast masters club.
I found a toast masters club,  um, that's in my area, it's actually on Largo.
And it's like the fees are ridiculously low.
And I went on the website and actually reached out to them.
So I'm gonna go to one of their meetings in February and just kind of see what it's all about and  if it's something that would be helpful to me, but.
You know, I'm- I'm really proactive about making myself a better me.
And sometimes you have to go outside the box to do that.
You know, you have to tap into resources you're like,  well who, that person?
Yeah, that person.
Exactly that person,  so.
Mm-hm.
Right?
Exactly.
Okay.
Me too.
Okay.
Okay.
We kind of all over the place.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Planning.
Oh yeah.
Wow.
but I'll- if I find some old pictures- I wanna go dig around and see if I can find some old pictures because  pictures are- are what they say worth a thousand words.
And if you could just see us at the go gos and at Union Station and it's just like,  I get it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really?
Mm, Union Station.
Right.
Oh yeah.
Mm-hm.
I forgot one little piece that I wanted to give you.
Um, and this just ties back into the community  that I grew up in.
Uh, my grandmother is really  really heavily into politics, local politics,  um, in the county and in the state.
And one other thing that I wanted to mention is that I am a member of my Civic Association  and that  there's a lot of young folks on our Civic Association, you know, in the neighborhood where- where I live.
And they give back as well, they have that same spirit of- of community service.
You know, we door knock, we- we  pick people up and drive them to the polls if they don't have a ride to- to vote,  um, and make sure that they're registered to vote.
That's the first thing that we give our seniors before they graduate from high school  along with a college application is voter registration card.
I mean, it's just something that you do.
It's expected of you.
And last year-  well,  yeah before last,  I was an election judge, um,  in my area, in my district.
And I think we had maybe  seventy percent of our voters were first time voters.
So that just ties into  us being so community driven and like a family and just certain things are expected of you and you just do it without- without thought.
So I wanted to add that-  that piece to,  um, tie it to my community and   um, family life.
It w- it was  absolutely  amazing.
And I have a story.
Um, there was  a- a older lady, and I wanna say maybe  she was  ninety-seven or something, she was  way up there in age.
And- um,  and so I'm helping her,  in her chair and helping her up to the polling station so that she can vote.
And  she just started crying and she's like,  this'll be my last vote-  time voting, I'm sure.
And I'm sick  but  I got out of my bed  to come  and vote for Obama.
And then I saw a lot of young people  who were our first time voters.
And then  my husband at the time, you know, he had never voted,  but he voted for Obama.
And he was actually involved in- you know, with the outside, we call it working the polls where  you're handing out literature to help people understand who they're voting for giving 'em backgou- background information,  transporting people back and forth.
He was so heavily involved in it because  he really believed in what Obama stood for.
And I think that he  energized this whole city.
Um,  especially with young people that  who were like, oh my vote doesn't count, you know, they're-  you know, it doesn't matter if I vote or not, you know, they're gonna do what-  He really  made people believe that  your vote will count  and  I'm gonna do what I say I'm gonna do.
And I think that it was just excitement like, wow, you know, our first African American president.
And then, you know, he and his family and how they represent black love, it was just kind of like,  thank you.
Like we finally have a image that is so positive and people can actually see  us being us instead of what they may see on the news or, you know, a video game or video, music video.
You're actually seeing us, how we are as a family.
And what I found so funny was when Michelle brought her mother    to the White House.
And that's typical of- of- of African Americans and how we're so  family oriented.
I woulda did the same thing.
Like, we're going to a new city, I need my mama.
So,   he just really energized the whole city and he made it hot and sexy.
He made DC like-  we've had more celebrities come here now  since Obama has been in office than ever  ever before.
I mean, he made it like, a new hot spot.
So,  thanks Obama.
Okay.
I- I'm on board with it.
I say fire everyone from the-    from the top to the bottom.
We have not been to the Super Bowl since Doug Williams.
However,  I think the Redskins have the most loyal fans in the NFL because we show up  every game.
We buy tickets, we buy the jerseys, you know, we're Redskin fever.
But  I just really would like to see them  give us back what we give them.
And I think that a new coach is a great start.
And I have my fingers crossed, I say it every season, this is gonna be our year.
So I'm gonna say that again, this is gonna be our year.
But we'll see.
We'll see.
I'll still support 'em either-  either way.
All the way.
We do.
Yup, it-  whichever way it goes, I'm- I'm'a be a Redskin fan for life.