Mm-hm.
Yes.
Um,  Ivory City.
Northeast.
Ivory City.
Ivory.
Mm-hm.
Um, it's over there off of Trinidad.
M- M- Montello Avenue.
Mm-hm.
Over there.
All my life.
Crummell.
That was my- Uh-huh.
No that was my elementary school.
Um, Crummell?
N- I-  Ivory City.
Mm-hm.
They done tore it down but the building is still there.
Mm-hm.
No he was born in um,    Jenkinsville, South Carolina.
Mother was born from  at Leavenworth, Kansas.
I was born here, she did- she had all of us here.
Um, I have  ten sisters and four brothers.
Yeah.
Seven.
Right in the middle.
I'm the last child from the first group.
Um,  three years.
And then the rest of 'em come along.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
He was a boot black.
Shine shoes.
Mm-hm.
He was a boot black.
Uh, she did um,  maid's work.
Hou- you know,  in houses.
I remember  we had a store on the corner,  um,  I remember all of our- We knew all the neighbors cause it was like a small-  it wasn't like  big.
We knew all the neighbors.
The houses they was like  some houses were nice, some of 'em was kind of ran down you know.
Um,  we'd- Our apartment  was um, nineteen fifty-five RD-ADDRESS-6 See we lived at Ivory City but the street was RD-ADDRESS-6  And you know I remember   getting beatings a lot.
Yeah.
Something like that and um- No.
No.
Our parents didn't- They were kind of strict.
They- they were-  they were strict and then in a way they wasn't strict you know but when it came to us like, going outside like the kids do today, no we weren't allowed to do that.
We was allowed to all sit on the porch.
And what we could do on the porch is what we did on the porch.
If we stepped off the porch we would have to come in the house.
Well-  Yeah it was.
And um, w- well we could step off the porch to play jump rope with each other, double dutch.
And we could  run up the hill cause there was like a hill right in front of our door so we could run up there long as our mother was at the window and she could see what we were doing.
But she did allow our brothers to do a little more.
Yes.
Yes.
I couldn't believe it because um,  uh, three weeks ago I was with a friend of mine  and they were close to Ivory City so I said, why don't you take me to Ivory City to see if  you know, everything look the same.
It looks more like a ghost city.
But nineteen fifty-five where we stayed  is still there.
Not a house, apartment.
All of us.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
One.
One.
My- my mother and father had that room, we slept in the living rooms you know in sleeping bags,  mattresses,  it looked- we looked like a- a carpet.
Once we all  got into bed and went to sleep we lookeded like a carpet.
Until I was um,    I had to be like  nine.
Nine or eight.
We moved to-  I- I remember that as if it was yesterday,  we moved on Ainger-  Ainger Street-  Ainger Place Southeast.
Off of Alabama A-  To Southeast.
On the other side.
In Woodland, and you mighta heard of Woodland Terrace?
Yup.
My mother li- That's where we moved at.
Ainger.
They moved us in this house  and this house was-  Oh my god, it was full of rats.
So we- we stayed up at night, we talked to each other  ducking rats and  then um, I say we lived in there for about  a year.
Our pictures were in the paper  in um, The Post,  you know, ts- A- and I never forget the front-  the um, the headline:  Rats  Big as Cats,  which they was.
And then after we lived there for a year,  then they moved my mother down  the street in one of the um,  house-  in one of the low income houses.
Five bedroom.
Yup.
Yup to- to this other house  which we couldn't use none of the rooms because they was so-  they just wasn't sanitary enough.
I don't even know why they moved our- my mother in there but  by us being young  we didn't wanna take the picture but she made us get in it,  w- So, she- I guess she can get help  the way she did.
Then she moved down the street,  at um, twenty-three sixty,  she stayed there for  fifty-two years until she died.
And  I left home- When she moved down there, I left home at the age of thirteen.
All over the place.
I- I stayed up-  um,  up Northwest with my sister, she lived in the Dunbar Hotel, I don't know if anybody remember that.
That was on Fifteenth and U.
She stayed in there with her boyfriend, I stayed in there with her for a while.
But then he wanted to start getting fresh, so I told her, she didn't believe me cause she was a drunk.
So,  I stayed out in the street.
I stayed in um, Meridian Park,  that was  mostly- that was mostly where I stayed.
I stayed there for like- Uh-huh.
I stayed in there for like three years.
Off and on.
A- Um, s- People would-  I would meet people in the park and they would see that I didn't have nowhere to go, they would offer me over to their house, give me something to eat,  let me take a shower,  stuff like that, but then after that I had to go.
So,  majority of the times I slept in the park.
Even in the winter time, I think that's why sometime I have trouble with this hip.
Mm-hm.
No.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
That's exactly what I tell people I-  My- my knowledge came from the streets.
Because when I left  Crummell  that was my elementary school, I went to Cramer.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
I went to Cramer.
I  passed to the  eighth grade.
And then by me not  you know, b- get- being able to get no help, nobody didn't wanna help me because back then in the day,  you know like, it wasn't easy to get on public system, get food stamps stuff like that.
So,  I just  stopped going to school and  like I said I left home when I was thirteen,  when my mother saw me again I was twenty-six.
Yup, I lived off of people that was the ones that was nice enough to let me come and stay with 'em and other than that,  I was sleeping in the park  when I felt like that wasn't safe some nights I would go in abandoned buildings, sleep in there.
Sleep in elevator shafts that didn't work, you know.