Five six  fifty-six.
Me too.
Washington, DC.
Um,    I would say-  I'm not real sure what it's called.
I'm- I'm near Howard University.
Columbia Heights  is probably close.
Yes I have.
Um, the farthest I've gone is Silver Spring, Maryland, which is where I reside right now.
I am true native.
Yes.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary.
From there, I went to RD-SCHOOL-7.
Um, and then I went to a couple of universities and finally ended up at the RD-SCHOOL-8, which is where I got my degree.
I am the Director of Special Events for RD-WORK-10.
My dad was born here- in DC, yes.
Mom was born in Spotsylvania County, Virginia.
Um, she migrated to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which is where she grew up,  and then  moved to DC.
My father was a um, letter carrier for the U- U- USPS and my mom was a homemaker.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
I grew up  um, on Lamont Street in Northwest DC, and we lived in a row house.
Um,  the- Lamont Street was- was nothing but row houses.
There were six of us.
Actually, well there's six- six kids.
Um,  and my oldest sister, who is eighteen years older than me, had already moved out, and  she had gotten married.
Um, we had a three bedroom house.
Um,  two baths.
Really one that was really-  that we  all used, but we- The five kids of us and our parents lived in this  row house.
And it never seemed like it was cramped for space or anything.
It f- seemed like more than enough space for all of us.
Um, the neighborhood was primarily families  of the same income level.
Um,  all African Americans.
We may have had  one Caucasian family,  or at least one parent was Caucasian, but for the most part, it was African American.
Um,  lots  of kids my age,  um,  and lots of-  lots of  teens that were my siblings' ages.
I'm the youngest of the six.
Yes.
And um,  so it was one of those neighborhoods where you felt safe to go out.
Um, we would play  until the street lights came on, and then you- you- you know, you knew it was time to- to make your way in.
Um,  and  it was-  I mean-  Y- you know- cor- We had a corner store.
We would spend time up on the corner of Georgia Avenue and Lamont Street.
And um,  i-  When I got through high school it was still kind of that way.
Um, but as I got to-  to the end of high school, the neighborhood started to change.
Um, the ne- and-  Soon people- A lot of the families, or the  folks that lived there either passed away, um-    uh- whi- which was the case for most- most of the um, s-  incident- situation.
Um, and  r-  we found that there were a lot more families that were moving in that were renting the homes.
And unfortunately, I think that contributed to sort of the  um, neighborhood  not being taken care of and- and not  groomed and yards weren't done like they used to be when I was growing up.
Um,  a lot more-  The other thing about my neighborhood is  right behind our house,  you know, there was an alley.
And on the-  the other side of the alley were- was public housing.
So we had public housing like two blocks away from our street.
Um,  and a lot- I had friends in public housing, so I'm in no way saying that that was, you know,  anything negative.
But I just wanna kind of give you the gist of- of- of what the neighborhood  started to look like,  and  um-  You started to see a decline,  like I said- Oh,  the big- the big turner-  The big um, neighborhood changer was  the riots of  sixty  seven?
Sixty eight?
Yeah.
Okay, so that happened-  Well I've already told you how old I am, so that happened when I was in the sixth grade.
And  I mean, you can look at me because nobody on this s- s- s-  um,  tape recorder can see, but  I'm very fair complected.
Everyone in my house- We are a rainbow of colors, but everybody that- All of my siblings, my parents, and all,  visibly African American.
There was always a big question because of my fair complexion.
And um,  none of my friends ever  made that known to- I mean, it was never an issue with any of my friendships or my family.
I was just  RD-NAME-2,  just  you know, on Lamont Street.
And um,  when the riots happened,  you know, there was a change, not only  physically in the neighborhood because right at the corner store that we used to go to, there was looting.
I mean  people would- the- the- Georgia Avenue was just- All of the little neighborhood stores were destroyed.
People were, you know, throwing rocks.
You could see people running and looting the-  the stores.
It was pretty sad.
Actually,  for me, at that age, it was kind of exciting because I had never seen anything like this before, and didn't even really truly understand why it was going on.
But as I look back on that,  I- it was really a sad-  it was really a sad  state of affairs cause the neighborhood was never the same after that.
Um, but growing up  during that era,  I struggled a lot with  identity.
You know, just trying to make sure that people knew-  look, I'm an African American.
We didn't even say African American black then- I wa- back then.
I'm black.
You know, don- don't- And- and there was a heightened,  you know, awareness of- of race and  you know, all of that that came with the- the assassination of- of Doctor Martin Luther King.
And um,  I- I  used to- I s- From my preteens up and probably til  my first years in high school was really difficult  because I found that  people who didn't know me treated me very differently.
They assumed  I was,  you know, from some  more affluent neighborhood or  um,  that I walked around thinking that I was quote unquote white.
Um,  and  luckily I had a f- stable home.
I had great friends.
But during that time, it was just-  It was really  hard for me t-  just to kind of  um,  be comfortable in my own skin.
So um,  anyway.
So- so,  backing up to the riots.
Um, after all of that was over, and the neighborhoods were pretty much torn up,  um,  our neighborhood just went downhill.
You know, there was- there was no more pride.
There was no more sense of community.
Um,  by that time, more people had started moving in that weren't really  taking care of their homes, and the neighborhood just started to go down.
I- n- n- You kn- And  I found also that we didn't  walk the neighborhood like we used to.
You know what I mean?
The corner store was gone.
We wouldn't-  We were very afraid to go up on our-  on Georgia and Lamont Street anymore because it was-  You know, it was unsafe.
And then- The drugs came in at that point,  yes.
And um,  a lot of people that I grew up with unfortunately,  um, kind of fell into that.
Um, people who are my age now are still-  I know- I've know a couple that are still struggling-  struggling.
Never were able to kind of recover.
But  um,  I lot of  um,  younger people- We used to have  older guys-  And I'll even include my dad on this.
When my dad retired, there used to be a group of  um,    men on the block, fathers  that used to hang up-  Just- just  hang up the street.
You know, there- there used to be a little  um-  There used to be a crab house   arou- You know, on another corner, and it seemed to be sort of the hang out for all the dads.
In fact, my dad ended up forming-  Well, I'll tell you about that later.
But um- talking about the crab house.
So um,  um,  it then began where my  dad would go up to the corner, and we'd worry  because these young kids were coming from  wherever.
Either they were in public- From the public housing  or the surrounding neighborhoods- It just brought-  It just brought a whole different dynamic to the community.
And um, so my dad used to- You know, it just- i-  There weren't the little groups of- of guys, men, fathers, who used to hang up at the crab house.
It kind of  dwindled.
You know, it was just- it was just really sad how  all of that um-  all of that changed.
Even thinking about it now, it truly is sad because then my dad  you know, didn't go out as much.
He stayed home more.
He wasn't really an  outgoing kind of guy anyways, and that was sort of his  one recreational  thing that he enjoyed.
Um,  I- I feel like I'm blabbering- blab-  You know, stumbling all over.
Um, one thing that I do remember also, if I can back up about my neighborhood,  my da- So, there were six of us, or five girls and one boy.
Um, me being the youngest.
So, I mentioned that my oldest sister,  who's like eighteen years older than me, had already  gone to college, graduated.
She married.
Her husband was in the military so they traveled a lot.
So it was the five of us at home, and my dad  used to  um,  with the young men in the- in the  public housing,  who came from single  family  h- um, households.
Most of them had just moms uh, in the home.
He formed  baseball leagues.
So,  even before  you know, any organized- I don't know how long Little League has been around, but he used to- There was soft ball.
So he would have  um-  He would take the guys from the public housing-  Um, some of my sisters used to even play.
I didn't.
I was- I was always  too- I was, and there was such a huge age gap that they always thought I was too young and you know, all of that.
Um, so, um,  he would  form these leagues, and-  and the guys would play baseball.
And they actually had something to do after school and not just hang out in the street.
And he did this for years and years and years.
And then he did one with adult guys, like by the- when- th-  By the time my  um,  my brother was like, in his twenties or whatever,  um,  he formed the crab house  team.
Right?
You know the- the crab house sponsored their uniforms, sponsored the team.
That's how the crab house got in there.
Um,  and so um, he did a lot in the community for these young men.
In fact, when he  um,  got older-  when he was older, these men, who had grown up into adults,  honored him.
They all came together and gave him this-  rented a hall,  invited, you know, all the guys and you know, our family,  and-  very nice little dinner, reception,  and honored him  for changing their life.
I'm getting ready to cry-   for really having a positive impact,  and a lot- all of them said, were it not for him,  they-  God only knows where they would have ended up.
So I had to share that story about my dad.
Um,  so that was- You know, again, that was kind of the neighborhood that we lived in.
Um, my dad was a really um,  family oriented kind of guy.
He was um-  I still believe my father in-  invented Jeopardy, before Jeopardy even happened.
He used to have- He used to go through encyclopedias.
He used to go through- Before Google.
Yeah- Wh- Like, what was that, right?
And then he used to- I used to have Doctor Seuss books, so he would go through Doctor Seuss books.
And we'd have family night.
And we would divide ourselves into teams,  um, and he would have on a little piece of paper in a cigar box,  um-  You know, the categories would be sports, you know,  um,  latest news- And then I had a RD-NAME-2 box, which was  all Doctor Seuss stuff or anything he had g-  he knew that I would know answers to.
And so we would have-  And we had a chance to just kind of pick out of the cigar box, and he'd read the question, and we'd have to get the answer.
We got points for whoever got the most.
And um, that was family quiz night.
And so that was-   That was awesome.
Um,  and so, you know, life went on.
And like I said, our neighborhood changed-  sort of changed the dynamic of how we-  Once we all  grew up and moved out of the household-  Um, I was one of the last  um, because I just wasn't sure what I was gonna do after high school.
I went to  RD-SCHOOL-9.
I graduated valedictorian in my class.
I went to the RD-SCHOOL-9,  um, was totally  just like- I didn't-  o- o-  out of  sorts.
I didn't even know  the p- It was so huge.
I had gone to a very small Catholic private high school.
And um,  couldn't make it.
Or didn't make it.
Just didn't want- I was too insecure.
Um,  left there, ended up going to RD-SCHOOL-2 for a semester.
Um, and this was all because of my older si- My parents never went to college.
They both finished high school.
Um, my oldest sister and myself are the only  two that actually finished  h- um, college out of-  out of the six.
And um,  she was determined that I was going to go to college and finish.
And  so, she kept pushing me and pushing me, and I just- You know, it was easier to  work  um- I was doing retail, and I thought I was gonna be a model.
You know, I had all of this whole  you know, pie in the sky idea of what my life was really gonna be like, and she's telling me, go back to school.
Go back to school.
And then finally she says, well look, you know-  RD-SCHOOL-3 had just been formed.
It used to be um,  RD-SCHOOL-6,  RD-SCHOOL-10,  and RD-SCHOOL-7.
Well, you know, they all merged together and formed the RD-SCHOOL-8, so it was a new concept-  new-  You know, just kind of- This is- Well,  a-  s-  RD-SCHOOL-2 campus w- didn't really exist.
RD-SCHOOL-9 had  property on Connecticut Avenue.
Um,  so, when it first started,  we had  uh- My classrooms-  u-  RD-SCHOOL-6- which was a very historically um, black  one o- you know,  institution-  Um, was where most of African Americans went  for college and came out in the education  um-  as an education career teachers.
And, so they had  buildings near RD-SCHOOL-7.
So their buildings there- There were buildings on Connecticut Avenue where the RD-SCHOOL-2 campus is now that was part of RD-SCHOOL-9, and then RD-SCHOOL-7,  which was, um-    I always call it- It was like a militant college, and it was where people who were  getting back into the Afrocentric kind of ways, and it was the sixties and seventies.
Yeah, so, it was you know, Black Power.
It was the Black Panthers.
It was kind of that era.
And-  But  these were people who wanted to be educated, and most of their buildings  were downtown near um,  like um, Second  and um,  where that new Walmart is,  down in Northeast.
Um,  Eighth Street.
Yeah.
I don't know why I couldn't think- yeah.
Yeah yeah yeah.
And um, so when RD-SCHOOL-3 was formed, we had all of those buildings, and it really depended on what your major was, where you actually went.
So I had classes in old DC teacher's buildings near RD-SCHOOL-2.
I had 'em downtown.
I had some on Connecticut Avenue.
Um,  and  u- what I-  When I look back on it,  I think that was  the best college experience  I could have had  at that time in my life  because by the time I f- I really-  My sister kept saying, just take classes.
Just take classes.
Just- just- don't totally not go.
Just take a class a semester and just see.
And-  and I ended up doing that, taking a class here, and then I took a couple classes while I was still working.
Another couple classes, and eventually I looked and said, well man,  I'm almost- I- I can like, maybe graduate.
You know.
And um,    what I loved about RD-SCHOOL-3 at the time is that it was  not your typical straight out of high school student.
They were- It w- It was people coming back  to try and  better themselves  to  you know, get some- more education so they could go out and get better jobs.
So it was an older-  Probably, I wanna say the average- And I'm guessing, but  the average student was probably around-  Freshman,  was about  twenty one.
You know what I mean?
Um, twenty two maybe.
And I met tons of great people, tons of great people.
And it was just a very  different mix.
You know?
It wasn't your typical-  Sometimes I miss out on- I w- I kind of miss not having the typical college experience.
You know, the campus life  like my kids have had.
Um, but  it was for me- uh, that was the right place for me because I was w- around more people like me  trying to-  had already finished school- was already  in the work place, and just trying to  really get my degree so that I could go off and do something,  you know,  something better.
I ended up majoring in C- majoring in Computer Information Systems Science,  and um,  came out, interviewed with RD-WORK-3 and got a job.
And was working there- worked there for eighteen years.
And then decided to do a chan- Well,  lots of things happened that made me  you know,  um, change careers.
But  you know, had I not-  had my path not gone in that direction,  I don't know where- you know, what my  life would have been at this point.
So,  okay.
I-  Do I need to bring it back to -  So I- Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay.
Well U Street used to be, um- w- u- where- how I remember it,  there used to be the Lincoln Theater.
We used to go there  to the movies  on U Street.
Ben's Chili Bowl, absolutely remember Ben's.
I mean,  you had to go to- If you were on U Street, you had to go to Ben's.
You had to get a chili dog.
Whether you liked chili dogs or not,  you had to go in there in that crowded place-  crowded little small spot,  and get- B- Sometimes we even took the  bus  just to go to Ben's to get a chili dog.
So um-  So U Street was more  African Americans.
You know, it was um,  i- i- i-  i- th-    When I was younger,  it was a lot  safer to go down.
As I got a little older, and when- I mean like, teens,  um, the neighborhood started to change.
It started to be  prostitution- U Street started to get- be known for  the area where prostitutes were.
And um,  Florida Avenue, U Street, Fourteenth and U, all of- You know, all of that used to be kind of the red light zone.
And um,  so we didn't go down as much.
After the riots- After everything seemed to be torn up- I don't know how Ben's specifically was affected,  but the movie theaters like you know, the Lincoln and all th- They were-  They were gone.
Um,  the Howard Theater I remember because of my sister.
Um,  e-  we used to go to you know, concerts or shows down there, but  once again, after the riots, it just wasn't the same.
And for me, as I- as I mentioned before,  looking the way I did, I didn't feel comfortable  going down- Cause it- it was so heightened.
I mean, racial things were so heightened.
I can remember  my very first  summer job, believe it or not, was working with the RD-WORK-5  RD-WORK-4.
And- I was thirteen.
Um, I actually worked-  It was number two.
I actually wor- It- But it was a different location.
Um,  and I actually worked in the-  i- For lack of a better term, like a headquarters.
The- W- I w- I used to um,  um,  help with the payroll and- and  the club  directors used to come and pick up their pay for summer workers.
You know, that kind of thing.
So I worked in the- in the  headquarters-  a- i- And I say that loosely, cause we were just  plopped down in- inside of the club-  Um,  for all the summer employees.
So if there were any issues- anything like that, they came over to where we were.
I didn't handle any of that.
I was j- It was all clerical.
It was all-  I was thirteen.
So you know, it wasn't like I did a whole lot.
And then, um,  um-  I mentioned that for a reason, and now that thought just went out of my head.
But- Yes.
Yes yes yes.
So  I used to- uh- So during that time,  um,  my hair was-  was long.
I mean, it was like,  past my shoulder right?
It was long.
And um,  I wanted to get an- I wanted to have an afro.
Right?
My hair was always curly enough that if it was cut short, it would have been an afro fright.
You b- You leave me in this room long enough, it's gonna be an afro.
But anyway, um, so  I- I was d- I figured- You know, I thought, if I just could get an afro, that'd help me out.
People would know, you know-  It's amazing.
Um, at thirteen, you know, that's kind of  what my mindset was.
So my sister one day, took and she-  I'll never forget.
She wet my hair.
She rolled it up on those little sponge rollers, and after it  dried,  it was- it was like, really curly-  She  teased it up.
She's-  had hair pins stuck- So I had this big  mop,  which- which resembled  in my mind, an afro.
I-  The pictures-  I am so embarrassed, and I look so awful, it's just ridiculous.
Oh my gosh.
But anyway, so- so I  found myself trying to just prove-  Because I still had to live in this neighborhood.
I mean I still-  This was still my community.
It was still you know, where I lived, where I went to school, where I  shopped, where I- You know,  where my friends were and all of that.
Bu- and- and all of this pressure I put on myself.
It's not like, I necessarily had  people, you know,  picking  fights with me or anything.
I ha- I did have a couple of incidents.
Not necessarily picking fights, but just kind of  you know, giving me a-  a hard time  because of-  of how I looked.
But  um-  But again, it was the pressure I was putting on myself,  and I can remember, clear as day, riding the day the bus down to that  summer job, looking like a fool, thinking that I was looking  you know- Just doing it.
So yeah, so, um,  um,  okay.
So,  so that was-    Yeah, I've totally lost- Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Yes.
You know,  um, my- my first answer would be no because I didn't tr- I was very um,  insecure-  I lacked a lot of confidence during that time, and I only wanted to be around people  that I knew and felt comfortable with.
I never really  ventured out  of- of my comfort zone.
So,  I can imagine-  It- it became  what I'll call  um-  And I hate to use the word advantage, but  honestly,  that's h-  When I started-  As I got older  and started going into the professional world, um,  like when I first started  working um,  in retail, I went out to White Flint Mall, which is now closed.
God.
But um- Lord and Taylor is still there.
It's holding on, man, it's holding on.
And um, so I went out there because I wanted to be in the- kind of that environment.
I didn't wanna- I wanted to be on the high end of  fashion, whatever.
And  I believe- A lot of people didn't know I was black when I interviewed for that job.
They had one young lady f- tell me  eventually- Um,  telling me eventually  after I worked there for awhile, that she should I was Jewish.
And I was like, no, I'm not Jewish, you know.
I'm African American .
And they were like,  really?
It looks so great on you.
Oh.
Okay.
Thanks,  I think.
Right?
Um,  so  like I said, I-  I-  As a young person,  I could see no benefit in it.
I- I just could not-  It was almost like, why am I- Why?
Out of all my-  And if you were to meet my siblings,  there would be no-  no mistake  about their ethnicity.
Um, my mom was fair skinned.
My dad was brown skinned,  but she-  A- And I guess, you know,  when she was young,  I think she had to go through  similar things as I did.
And- Exactly.
Um,  and I think  she um-  And it's funny because  in her  family,  there were  five kids,  one boy.
She was sort of the middle,  but she was also the most  um, fair skinned out of her siblings.
So she- And we never really talked about that cause she never wanted me to feel different.
You know what I mean?
She never wanted me to  um-  She didn't wanna acknowledge my fear or my- my  discomfort with  you know, my physical  appearance, so we never really talked about it.
And um,  yeah,  so.
Okay.
Alright.
Right.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay.
So,  I  went to DC public schools through the sixth grade, and then, my mom didn't wanna put me in the regular  um-  junior high  it was called-  which was then RD-SCHOOL-3  Junior High, which is now uh, a  Gifted and Talented  place.
Right?
Yeah.
Totally different.
Um,  and so, she um-  We grew up Catholic.
Um, my mother was Baptist.
My father was Catholic.
So we all went to Catholic church.
We went through the whole,  you know-  the whole Catholic  thing.
And um, so  we belonged to Sacred Heart Catholic Church on Sixteenth and Park Road.
And um, she went up there and spoke to the priest and said, I wanna enroll,  you know, my daughter in this thing.
And  Father RD-NAME-2, I'll never forg- he's- he's sort of an institution in- in DC as well.
He's since passed, but  um, he went over to the school with my mother.
Um, he was a- he was a Caucasian man.
He was a white man.
And  he went into the office, and he says,  this is my cousin,  and she wants-  she wants her daughter,  RD-NAME-2,  to attend this school.
And they said, okay.
I mean, I didn't have to go through any  hoops, any n- any  application process, nothing.
I mean, he just went in there and said, this is my cousin.
And they knew we were not his cousin.
But  he was so well respected that that's all- And  I-  I wasn't happy cause all my friends  were going to  the junior high school.
So once again, I'm feeling  different and,  now I have to go to Catholic school.
Now I have to go to a .
So, we end up- So, my seventh grade- which is really kind of a vulnerable- vulnerable time.
Cause you're seventh grade- You know, you're d- what?
Twelve?
Eleven?
I don't even know.
U- Looking-  Okay, so.
I go to- go to Catholic school, so  the first couple of days, we could wear  our regular clothes.
Now back then,  school was-  You- Girls didn't wear pants.
You wore- You wore a dress or a skirt.
And um,  so we- you know, we  go- First couple of days we could wear regular clothes, and then the-  the next week,  we had to wear our uniforms.
So,  one- my  first enco- The first horrible encounter I had at this school was with  a nun.
Sister RD-NAME-2, she had to be the meanest woman that I've ever met in my entire life,  okay?
Um,  she was the eighth grade teacher.
The way the school was organized, there was  one seventh grade,  one eighth grade,  one- one class-  And the- and the school  um-  It was the gr- RD-SCHOOL-5.
It was from first to eighth grade.
So most people there started at first grade, so they all knew each other.
So boom!
Here I come in the middle in seventh grade.
Um,  and  so  my seventh grade teacher was very nice, Sister RD-NAME-2.
Um,  eighth grade teacher, Sister  RD-NAME-2 was the meanest lady I'd ever met,  and the way they did it was um,  for  the higher level reading and math classes,  we switched,  and of course I was in that group, so I had to go to her class.
Okay, so, back to the first days when I'm- when I'm  wearing regular clothes, I happen to have on  a um-  From the front, it looked like a dress, but it was culottes.
That's what we called 'em.
You know what I mean?
They were really- And you couldn't even tell they were culottes.
Was walking through the hall,  in the line with my classes- Sister RD-NAME-2 was at the door-  When I walked past her, she said- She pulled me-  come over here!
We do not wear pants in this school!
So that was my first week  at a school that I didn't wanna go to,  where everybody else knew each other,  I felt like,  you know, I was an odd ball out,  and she made me feel even more like an oddball out.
So of course I hated it.
I was like, okay.
I hate this.
I never wanna come to this school again.
Toughed it out.
Um,  and then by the time I got to eighth grade, she and I were chums cause she saw I was  smart.
I- Cause I was.
I was smart because she made me smart.
She- Otherwi- She would-  She would embarrass you so terribly.
We had a young man who stuttered terribly in class.
Whenever she called on him to answer a question,  if he couldn't get a word out, up next.
She would move to the next person.
She had no sensitivity  at all.
So anyway, she and I ended up being really tight  because I w-  I- She made me  learn.
She made me wanna  be my best cause I was not gonna let her embarrass me.
Okay, so that's- that's one story.
So from the- and the g- and the school was made up of-  It was pretty diverse.
There were- There were Whites.
There were Hispanic.
There were  Asians.
Um,  and Black.
And  um,  people from Africa  were there.
So it was very diverse.
Um,  so I managed to get through the grade school, went over to the academy, which was ninth  through twelfth grade.
Um,  best  high school years of my life.
I-  My best friend was RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-3  was- her family was from the Dominican Republic.
Um,  she was a um,    dark brown skinned girl.
I was a light skinned girl.
Everybody used to call- You know, used to say, we were just  like salt and pepper all the ti-.
We were- We were clo- We-  We were inseparable.
We used to do everything together.
Um,  and- including,  you know, hanging out or sneaking out from lunch when we weren't supposed to.
Um,  in about tenth grade,  we had-  our- ours-  Um, the academy was- was a  converted  like,  house- this huge house,  um,  that-  You know, it was um-  I- I can't- We ha- I think it was a total of about  a hundred fifty girls in the school, s- ninth through twelfth grade.
Um, and so  we used to have this room  in the basement where our lockers room, and then there was a tunnel,  It was used in some war,  you know, so it was- Whatever.
So this tunnel- So a group of us went down there, decided we were gonna smoke cigarettes.
Okay?
So we go down there, we're lighting up cigarettes,  and we hear somebody come.
And there is one of the nuns coming down.
And she's-  she realizes wh- somebody is back- There's probably like eight of us.
And she starts c-  girls, come out of there.
Girls, come out of there.
So one at a time,  they're peeling out- We're peeling out, right?
She doesn't say anything.
Coming out, coming out.
She sees me, and she says,  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2, I am surprised at you.
Right?
Everybody was like, what- Is she surprised at you?
Everybody else, she's like, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-2- so, I  I was-  And I was a good girl.
I didn't do any- I knew my limits because I knew  what I'd have to deal with at home if I got into serious trouble.
But um,  so I used to-  I used to-  Everybody thought I was like this- this  perfect- n- not perfect.
They thought I was a good girl.
Right?
I was goody goody two shoes.
But- but RD-NAME-2 and I had our moments, you know.
And we had our moments doing  other crazy stuff.
Um,  I was a cheerleader in high school,  and we cheered for  our all girl basketball team.
And um , we would go around to different high schools and cheer.
And it was a big deal.
Um,  we went to competitions.
My freshman year we won the entire competition, so it was my first trophy.
Felt pretty  good about that.
Um, I was always a good student.
My s- Teachers always thought I was a good student.
Um, I ended up being the president of my senior class.
RD-NAME-3 was vice president.
And um- Yeah, right.
I was um, captain of my cheerleading squad.
You know, I was on all the-  Yearbook Committee, all that stuff.
You know?
Um, and again, the- the- the  cl-  the school was very diverse.
Um, it had some hard chicks,  and then it had some very soft sort of  soft spoken  girls, so it was-  There were um,  um,  lesbian girls there.
There were um,  hoodlums there,  and it was everything in between.
But it was  awesome.
It was just-  You know, nobody-  It wasn't like people were  m- messing with each other, or tryna beat up each oth- None of that.
It was just, that's how- how they were.
You knew that's how they were.
They were your girls.
They were your friend.
They did their thing.
You did your thing.
But you knew that  when they left school, it was a whole different-  different thing, so.
Mm-hm.
We w- used to um-  We used to- After school, we used to ride the bus downtown,  and-  You know, downtown like on Seventh Street.
Hecht's used to be there, so we used to go down and  um,  you know, hang out at the stores.
We didn't really have money,  but the little bit of money we'd have we might,  you know, buy- go and eat.
So we'd do stuff like that after school.
Um,  we would go to movies.
Um,  we didn't um-  We didn't do a lot of like-  We did p- We did have pa- We had house parties.
You know, we had  occasional house parties.
Um,  and just  kind of hang out at each other's houses.
You know, we would  hang out.
We would  play records, like forty fives .
And we'd sing.
And we'd pretend like we were the group singing.
And we'd- had dance steps, and we'd  you know, do that kind of thing.
Um,  I used to love, believe it or not, going to the library.
So I used to take the bus-   I used to take the bus to Petworth Library  and go up there.
And I used to love to read these teenage romance novels.
I'd get my- my books, and I'd hop right back down to um,  home, and I'd read my books and-  So sometimes I could convince a couple of my girlfriends to um,  to go up with me.
And we'd-  You know- We'd hang out and be stupid at the library.
Um,  for a minute, I was a cheerleader for Pop Warner.
We had um- um-  You know some of the-  Like I said, there were a lot of-  There were a lot of young people in the neighborhood,  and there was a group of guys  that were on this Pop W- And- And I didn't even know it was Pop Warner until  you know, years later.
Excuse me.
But they were playing football, and they were looking for girls to cheer.
And so a lot of  girls in my neighborhood and  people I went to school with, we formed a group.
We had somebody- I don't even remember who she was- that made up the cheers for us, and we'd  practice  throughout the night  on our street,  you know,  um,  doing cheers.
So we did that.
Um,  I didn't-  I-  That's-  You know,  I was really- Our family was very very close.
So we did a lot of things  together as a family.
Um,  so a lot of times, you know I-  When my sisters had parties, you know, we'd sneak down there and sit on the basement step until they ran us out.
Um,  we used to- I used to dress up in their clothes.
You know, I mean stuff like that.
You know, nothing- I was not.
I- I- You know,  I got a little wild  in my  like, junior and senior year.
And um, that's when I discovered weed.
Okay?
And  so um- And I was driving.
This was the seventies.
Yeah, it was early seventi- It was- It was not- Okay, if I can be honest with you,  RD-NAME-2 and I- because I got my driver's license at sixteen,  didn't have a car.
We never had a family car.
We never had a family car.
Um, my sisters always had cars.
So my- my sister next to me, who is eight years older,  she was working,  um-  Oh, sorry.
She was working  at  RD-WORK-6  RD-WORK-3.
She had worked there for years.
And,  she was living at home still.
She had a daughter.
So, she and her daughter were living at home.
So she had money to burn.
So she went out and bought a car-  We- She and I got  our driver's license at the same time.
I was sixteen.
She was what?
Twenty four.
And then, as soon as she got her driver's license, she went out and bought a car.
Like, little- You know, little  car.
And um,  I would  drive her to work in the morning.
She worked out in um,    um, Crystal City.
I would drive her before school in the morning,  drop her off and have her car  at- at school.
So I was just- you know, we- Leaving- oh, I was it.
I had my girls piling in that tiny little car.
And we would go, and we would-  I don't even know where we would go.
We would go- Rock Creek Park wasn't far.
So we'd go, and we'd drive down to Rock Creek Park.
We'd hang out there.
We might smoke some weed hanging out there.
Then,  we'd come- Or we'd go- Just ride.
We just r- rode.
You know, we didn't go- No place, no destination in mind.
We'd just ride.
There were times we'd even smoke weed in the car.
And if we'd s- You know,  because you know, cigarette smoking was more- I mean, you know, it was just-  It wasn't as-  It's not that it wasn't taboo cause it was illegal,  but  everybody did it.
It had- It totally- It really did.
It really did.
I mean you could- We would go- I remember going to Howard University to see um,  Santana and some other- And I was probably  fourteen, fifteen.
My- my  girlfriend and I went.
And  people were sitting there- Well you could smoke cigarettes then,  in time at Cramton Auditorium.
And um,  we were sitting - My girlfriend and I were sitting-  fourteen- probably fourteen.
And there was some college students in front of us, some guys.
And they were smoking a joint.
And they  reached back to us and asked us did we want-  And I was like, oh God no!
Cause by th- You know, I was like, oh!
Oh!
Ah!
No!
No!
And so we were- And we talked about that for weeks,  that, he was- he was offering us a joint!
He was offering- We should have taken it.
We should have taken it.
So it was more-  You know it was  open.
We would go to concerts at um-  It was the Capital Centre then, which is over in Largo.
And  um,  you could smoke weed at the Capital Centre.
You know big shows like Parliament-Funkadelic and  um,  you know, War.
Man, those- those were the days.
We used to smoke weed in these concerts, and nobody ever said anything.
You wouldn't do it just like,  you're sitting there out in the open but-  And if somebody  came up, you know, you'd be-  But you could smell it reeking throughout the whole- So it was a lot more you know, la-  lax, you know.
Not as highly  policed as it is now.
Um,  so in that regard, I was a little wild child.
I was not  involve- I had a boyfriend,  but sex was  off limits.
It was like,  Nope,  not having sex.
I'm- I'm not c- Number one cause I'm scared to death.
I had no idea.
You know it was- that was not- RD-NAME-2 and I both, we were like, uh nope.
If it got to that point, we just let 'em right know- uh, sorry.
You know, and-  and guys were- They kind of understood.
You know, it wasn't like-  I don't know.
It was just a whole different time.
Um,  and then,  after high school,  um,  RD-NAME-2 went off to RD-SCHOOL-13,  and I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
So we kind of separated ways.
And I had other- I mean, we- I had other  friends that I dealt with, but RD-NAME-2 was my girl, so when she left,  it was tough.
So I would go down and see her on the weekends.
And I didn't live on campus, I commuted.
Um,  I was fortunate being the youngest child,  and because I graduated as valedictorian out of my group of thirty five girls- Hey I was still number one.
Um, and my parents who didn't have-  We didn't have  a lot of money.
We weren't-  I never remember wanting for anything.
I mean, we had food.
I didn't have the latest of stuff.
You know, I didn't have the latest fashions, the latest clothes, you know- stuff like that,  but I had clothes.
I mean I was-  I was- And none of my  friends or people I hung out with  did either.
Um,  so,  for my graduation gift from high school, they bought me a car.
They bought me a little seventy four Chevy Vega,  and I remember it was something like,  six thousand dollars.
And that was a big deal.
I mean six thousand dollars was a lot of money.
Um, the car note was something like thirty dollars a month.
And my mother- My mother, God bless her, she um,  handled all that  herself.
She went- I'll never forget her taking a cab  to what is now  Geico.
It used to be called Criterion Insurance.
But um,  up on Wisconsin Avenue, she took  to get me insurance,  caught the cab back, so that I when I walked out  of my high school graduation,  that car was sitting there waiting for me, insured,  everything.
I mean it was-  God bless her soul.
My mother was just a saint.
Um-  um- She did not drive.
She did not drive.
And  um,  she was- Oh, God.
I'm gonna cry again.
She was um-  I'm sorry.
Um, my dad was  more quiet and reserved.
And  he went out- He would be up at four in the morning  cause his route was downtown, like the businesses downtown.
Down M Street.
Um,  and  um,  he would get up first- I mean he would be gone.
He'd be home like, you know, two o'clock  from work.
And my mother was a homemaker,  but she ran the house.
I mean she was  five foot two of  energy, fire,  love like you would not believe.
I mean just-  I mean,  you know, she was just  a jewel.
And um,  everybody in the neighborhood  knew my mother.
If you came to my mother for anything, and she- Like I said, we didn't have a lot-  She would feed you.
She di- I- I-  I- I- I don't know, and miraculously we would have food to feed  you know these guys in the neighborhood that my dad used to  you know, do the baseball thing- They'd come in.
They would eat.
Um,  if she had a dollar, and you needed  ninety cents,  she'd give it to you.
You know, everybody-  everybody knew  my mother for that.
She was just very giving and very  um,  kind.
And- But she was a fire cracker.
You know, it was just  she  at times- And she didn't do it all the time, but when she was mad, she could curse like a sailor.
She went to church every Sunday, was on her  choir.
She was a very- We used to always said, if you- say, if you needed to talk to God,  get my mother to pray for you, because she had a direct connection  Cause she was just -  So um,  but  she would um-  We knew not-  As- as  kids  growing up, we knew that  there were certain lines we did not cross.
And-  and not so much that my mother would-  would whip you and  punish you and-  It was cause we didn't want to disappoint her.
You know what I mean?
It was more that than anything.
It was the fear of-  of M- Mom  being upset with us  or disappointed with us  versus-  Cause she never like,  whipped us or -  I never got a spanking.
My- my  siblings would always say, well yeah, Mom used to smack me across the head, or whatever.
You know, but  w-  w- I never witnessed anything.
And I never-  You know.
Thank God.
Well I don't know if that's thank God or not.
Maybe I  needed a couple of knocks upside the head.
I don't know .
But um,  yeah, so  she um-  She saved up, and she saved up.
She didn't put the-  She had a bank account, but the money that she saved,  she- she saved at home so that when she-  No, that was the first- Okay, so my first car  was  the-  the seventy four Vega.
So um,  you know, and I was working- Oh you know- little- not getting paid  at all, but  um- And I was still living at home,  and I still lived at home until I actually moved out.
I had moved out once with my girlfriend.
We  got an apartment, and it just  you know.
It- I was- I never had money.
It was like, everything went to rent.
It was like,  I can't do this.
I'm moving back home.
And so my mother welcomed me with open arms,  and um,  sh- so um-  So when I finished college-  Even before I finished college,  my- my Vega died.
I had that car- I-  We got every dime's worth out of that car.
I mean, it-  The last time I drove that car, it went only twenty five miles an hour.
It was just- I-  I drove that car  eight, ten years, right?
And um, cars weren't made  like they are now.
So um,  anyway, so I needed another car  so I could get back to forth to school and- and to work and all.
And  my mother used to p- play the lottery,  and she says, if I hit- Our address was six twenty five.
To this day, that is like a magic number in our family.
She says, if that six twenty five comes out, I'm buying you a car.
Lo and behold,  six twenty five came out.
My mother- We walked- We-  Walk-  We went to the  Mazda dealer-  My brother-in-law took us over there-  um, in Arlington.
And she pulled out this sack of money,  and she  had  eleven thousand dollars cash  that she paid for my car.
This was the second car she had bought me!
And I'm like, in my  twenty- Like early twenties.
And  I was like-  I- Mom, I can't believe th- I- You know.
I know.
Right?
I know.
This was the se-  This was- By this t- This was early eighties.
So she had been saving, and then when she hit that lottery for that six twenty five,  she-  It was not even a question.
It was like,  six twenty five?
Let's go o- And my brother in law, who is my oldest sister's husband,  um-  You know,  but they were established.
They were, you know-  So she used to always kind of  defer to him, u- You know, like he went and negotiated the car deal, all that kind of stuff.
With this second car that she paid cash,  it was she and I.
And  she-  We had no negotiating skills,  but she eng- She got that guy  wrapped around her finger.
Not trying- Not intentionally, just her-  But when he saw what she was trying to do,  I mean it was just-  And then,  s- I was so happy.
I was so excited.
I was so happy.
And then I started feeling guilty, like oh my God.
I can't believe my mother just took all her money  and dropped it down  on a car for me.
And  I-  All I could think about was,  when I graduate  from college-  I- I already knew.
I- I w- I had majored in computers-  in Computer Information Systems.
I knew I was gonna work for RD-WORK-3.
My neighbor had worked for RD-WORK-3, this guy I had known for years and years.
I said, I'm working for RD-WORK-3.
So when I came out-    like who do I think I am?
I took  a couple months off.
Oh I'll get serious about looking for a job  in September.
I-  So stupid when you're young.
And um,  so I start sending out applications.
I went to this interview at Honeywell, went through this excruciating interview process.
You know, had to take like this aptitude test, just knew I had the job.
They called me  to tell me,  sorry, we've offered it to another person.
And I remember telling them,  well you've made a major mistake  because  I am the person that should have that job.
I was  devastated.
I was-  cause I just knew that was gonna be the job that I had.
I had already applied to RD-WORK-3, and I had already  gone to their central employment and interviewed.
And the guy there, um, RD-NAME-4,  um,  said to me,  You know,  you have everything we're looking for,  but nobody ever gets hired from this chair.
What I- What we do is we take your application and put it on file, and when there's an opening in our-  you know, in the branches in the regions,  we s- we send,  you know, resumes over.
That was like  September.
And  by the time I had gone through all this interview with Honeywell, it was like,  the end of November.
And when Honeywell told me that  I did not get the job,  I was so devastated.
I left the house,  and I drove to Rock Creek Park- this is a true story-  I rode to Rock Creek Park,  and I went and I sat down on the rocks-  Um, I've told my daughter this story.
She says, Mom, please don't tell me this story again.
And  I was just crying.
I was so upset cause I was like, I'm never gonna get a job- you know?
What am I gonna do?
I did all this to think I could get a job.
And um,  honestly,  this butterfly- this m- monarch butterfly came and  sat probably where you are from me.
And it just sat there, and I- and I wasn't even paying attention.
I just happened to look over, and I was like, there's a butterfly.
And then I just kept looking it, and it didn't move.
It s- It was there for like ten minutes.
And  finally it flew away, and I was like,  wow.
I- you know,  that butterfly just sat there for like a-  I got home,  and by this time, I don't know.
It's probably like eight o'clock at night.
My mother said,  RD-NAME-2, somebody from RD-WORK-3 called you.
I said,  what?
She said- and she said, her name is  S- her name was RD-NAME-4.
She said- and she said, whatever time you come in just call her.
Nine o'clock at night, I'm calling this woman.
And she says, oh yeah, hi.
I just wanted to um,  call  and invite you to ha-  an interview  up here in our office on East West Highway in Bethesda.
I was like,  oh my God!
So I went up,  and I had this interview with her.
Okay, now,  this was truly out of my comfort zone,  okay?
Little girl from Lamont Street neighborhood,  went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  and here I am, up in these offices of RD-WORK-3.
Right?
Um,  the candidates that they had were all Harvard grads.
They went to, you know, Columbia.
They,  you know-  I'm super intimidated, right?
So I go in and I meet with this woman, RD-NAME-2, and she was sweet as can be.
Sweet as- really nice.
And we would- we would, you know, typical interview questions, and she- she was asking me about school and  you know, I had my spiel together.
You know, I was like, well you know,  um-  And at the time,  um, RD-SCHOOL-3  had some of the top paid professors.
Cause I think they were tryna build it up- Whatever.
So I mentioned that, and I said, you know, um-  and  you know, we're using  the same textbooks as other universities.
And I said, going to a school like RD-SCHOOL-3,  you have to want  to learn.
You have to want to get something out of it.
You know what I mean?
And I think I worked harder  realizing that-  You know, having waited  to understand what I really wanted to do,  now I can focus on-  I had some- You know, I had it all down.
Went- I had- I interviewed with like four different people.
Um,  and  the last interview was with the branch manager.
And  I was so nervous cause he was like the top guy.
And  I walked in and he said,  so, do you wanna-  Do you wanna work here?
I said, I absolutely do.
He says, okay.
He says, then  make an appointment to go over and get your health assessment, and then- And I was like, oh my God.
I can't even-  I- okay, what?
So I made an appointment, went over h-  gave me a complete physical  over there, right?
Um,  and when I left,  the n- You know, like a couple days later, they  made me an offer.
And I started off  in nineteen eighty three,  December first, working at RD-WORK-3,  making twenty five thousand dollars a year.
I thought that was the big-  Twenty five five  as a systems engineer.
And you couldn't tell me that I was not on top of the world.
And that just made- that just-  My faith was- was  off the charts.
You know what I mean?
And I- And I- To this day, I believe that butterfly was a sign that it's gonna be okay.
You know?
Here I go again.
This is emotional, talking about your- This is your life.
Um,  and I was there for eighteen year-  very successful career there, met my husband there.
And um,  RD-WORK-3 was fat, dumb and happy at that point.
I mean it was-  it w- we were the only computer guy in town,  and nobody else could touch us.
And then the  personal computer came around, and RD-WORK-3 said, oops.
We dropped the ball on that one.
So,  you know, they were doing a lot of restructuring.
Um,  I went through three  or- reorganizations where my department was gone.
The great thing about RD-WORK-3 is it's a huge company.
You can always find  other  openings, and I managed to always find other openings.
Um,  almost ended up moving to New York  to take a job there,  but decided I didn't wanna move to-  to New York.
Um,  ended up  staying here,  worked for RD-WORK-3 research, which was a very very technical job.
Hor- most horrible job I've ever had.
It was reading technical documents,  um,  to- because it-  RD-WORK-3 research was where  you know, all of the-  We used to call 'em propellor heads and the ones that wear the pocket protectors, you know.
They come up with these- all these ridiculous ideas .
I know it.
And um, it was up to us- we were in Market Analysis.
What we had to do was to- to search  the market to see if there was a need for it  and to see what other  consultants were saying and to s- and to see if anybody else was doing it.
So I had to  pour through these technical reports  and then write  summaries and recommendations.
Oh my gosh.
Seriously, that was the worst job I ever had.
I was there for like a year,  then September Eleventh happened.
Um,  my sister worked at the Pentagon,  and  she was one of the victims at the Pentagon.
And I totally disengaged  from my job.
It was- I told my-  my boss-  I said, look, you know,  I- We're going through this right now.
I-  We didn't ev- We were s- We were like,  stuck- We had no idea what was going on.
It was so  extraordinary,  it was hard to know how to react, you know.
And the process of  you know, pulling into the parking lot, hearing on the radio that it-  the tower was hit  in New York.
There was rumor that the plane went into the Pentagon,  so I called my sister immediately.
Her voicemail came on, and I said, look, call me  ASAP.
Let me know everything's okay.
Nothing.
I got into my office.
I called her again.
The phone just rang and rang and rang and rang.
Called her again,  and there was- it- the phone just went dead, like- And I- I was cursing the cell phone cause I was like, these daggone cell phones don't work, and  um,  my husband called me and say, come home.
You know, Just come home because  RD-NAME-2 this is w- This is a big deal, and  they might be targeting large cooperations.
You have no idea.
Just come home.
So I left,  went home,  We're- My family's calling- My- Her son, who was in  Indiana at the time, he was- he was  an adult.
He was in school.
No, he didn't finish school.
He's calling, wondering if we had heard from her.
Um,  by- by night we called her house.
Nothing.
Um,  so we're calling h- i- By night time, we're calling hospitals.
We're c- We're calling every place we could possibly call, and nothing.
The next day came, we went through the whole process-  We ended- So my husband  and my  nephew,  um,  after like a couple of days,  found out  that  there was this um,  over at  the Sheridan in Crystal City, they had sort of a  makeshift control  room or something,  so  they rode over there, and  they  came back to tell us all the s- You know, they had set up family  rooms and  um,  it was- it was-  The way the g- The way the government handled it,  the mili-  duc- department defense handled it-  Hats off to them.
I mean they c- They accommodated us so much, tried to give us as much information-  We spent so much time over at that hotel, just trying to-  and f- and we had to get DNA samples.
We had-  By this time, we were- we  were pretty  certain that, you know.
So they um,  ended up  doing a graphic of where the plane hit,  and you know, the Pentagon is huge.
And they had this green slice like this,  and they- they  had a-  a young man-  mili-  you know,  soldier standing there,  and he says,  um-  You just had to tell him what  office your-  your family member was in, and he could tell you on the chart,  where that office was- wh- if they were affected.
So we told him,  and he pointed right to the green slice.
And then he just stood right back at attention.
He didn't say anything or any-  And it was- She was in the direct impact  zone.
And um,  it was just-  I- Man.
It was- that- it was- That was a time.
In hindsight,  it's a blessing  because I'm hoping that it happened  just like that, and she didn't know what happened.
You know, rather than- Yeah.
So, anyway, and it took a long long time for them to find any of her remains.
Um,  we  had to wait mon- months before we could-  before we did a-  like a memorial service for her.
So it was-  Anyway.
Not to dwell on that, but- but um,  so after- during that process, I was totally disengaged from RD-WORK-3.
And at that point, because of all the restructuring  they were having packages that they were offering people.
You know, if you retire early, you know, you get so many  months severance pay, and you can  have your bene- full benefits, all that.
I to- I told my husband, I'm- I'm done.
I can't- I can't do that anymore.
I'm- I'm done.
And  he was very supportive.
My kids were young too.
They were-  My guess is like, nine.
Eight and nine?
Um,  and  I just-  You know, it was just- I couldn't deal with it.
I felt like I had to be with my family.
You know, protect my kids.
You know just-  It was such an uncertain time, and um,  he was just sort of, what are you gonna do there?
You know, what-  I mean,  y- y- we were a two income home.
What are you gonna- And RD-WORK-3 was  paying a- a decent salary  after being there for eighteen years, and it was like, I don't even care.
I don't care.
I'm not doing anything.
If I have to go to work at  Giant or some other- I'm- I'm not doing that anymore.
I'm done.
And um,  as time went on  um,  this young lady had told me about  George Washington University having this event management  thing,  you know.
And I had done s-  some of that in a- in a couple jobs I had at RD-WORK-3.
And I've-  and I was good cause I was creative.
I-  I was good at that particular  kind of thing cause I was  creative.
I through a l-  some great branch office meetings.
It was  crazy.
I used to write scripts for little  skits that we would do.
I mean it was- it was-  that was  great.
So I end up- I said, okay, I'll j- I'll just take a class and see.
So the first day-  The first evening that I was supposed to go down to GW,  um,  just for the  orientation,  just to see what it was all about.
I had my daughter in the car,  and I was pulling out of my neighborhood,  on- I live off of Georgia Avenue and  Randolf Road-  Had just  pulled off  onto Georgia Avenue.
It was all this police activity.
It was like the streets were blocked,  I said, you know what?
I told my daughter- I said, forget this.
I'll do the next one.
Cause they had another one coming up  the next week.
We turned around and went home,  found out  that the sniper-  You know, the Montgomery County sniper?
The um,  Shoppers-  which is right a- right around the corner from my house,  somebody had just been shot.
So  it was- Yes.
Two thousand two.
Yep.
So um, the sniper was all up in my neighborhood.
So  you know, it was that anxiety now, right?
Um,  one thing I didn't mention was-  So my sister was September eleventh two thousand one.
My dad- My parents by that time were- were ill.
My dad was in a nursing home.
He passed January  um,  eighteenth, two thousand two.
My mom had Alzheimer's by that time,  and she passed April twelfth two thousand two.
So from  September  two thousand eleven to April,  I had three family members,  and then the sniper came.
And  it- it was just a time of just  you know, leaning  not on your own understanding.
You know what I mean?
And-  and it wasn't even  um, RD-NAME-2, like I was thinking,  oh my gosh, all this stuff is happening to me- I can't-  It w- I was living it, you know what I mean?
It wasn't e- It's not until n-  til later that I could look back and say,  dang, all of that was going on at the same time.
And it was just tryna get- You know, just tryna get through it.
And  when the s- During that time of the sniper,  um,  my kids school needed volunteers because it was- They were on lock down.
So,  I- So, they were in elementary school, and I was like, I'm going up to volunteer at school cause I wanna be where my kids are.
So,  I'm sitting in the elementary school-  The door's right here, glass door.
I'm sitting in a chair right here  to let people in and out.
Now I don't know if that's the sniper coming up here that I-  Anyway, all of that-  But I just felt like- I didn't- It  The fear wasn't even there.
It was just like, something I had to do, you know what I mean?
Just- So- so that was going on.
In the meantime, I started taking classes down at RD-SCHOOL-4.
Um,  finished their program,  um,  had to do an internship.
A family-  l- my sister who was killed at the Pentagon  was married  to um,  um, RD-NAME-3.
His sister,  RD-NAME-3,  was the CEO of RD-WORK-10.
And um,  we've- I've known her since I- You know,  a child.
They lived right around the corner from us.
And um,  when  my sister passed,  she was handling all of my  mother's financ- my parents' financial stuff.
So  because it was so sudden,  none of us had access to my parents' like bank accounts or anything like that.
So  I could not-  So their money was sitting in Bank of America, and I could not- We couldn't touch it.
Bills couldn't be paid, none of that.
Well,  RD-NAME-3 used to work at Bank of America,  and RD-NAME-3  you know, she's a-  She knows everybody in DC.
And we were at a baby shower,  and um,  we were talking about a couple of things, and she said-  And I was telling her about my mother, and she said, where's- i-  This is at Bank of America?
I said, yeah.
She said, well I'll call some people.
See if I, uh, I can't  help that out.
You know, see if I can  help you out.
The next day I get a call from  like a bank manager at one of the Bank of America.
She said, come on down.
I went down  signed my name on the- on the p- And I had access to the account.
So,  I- I  owe her for that- for- for-  Then I became the person to handle all my  parent's financial stuff.
So,  didn't go through any red tape.
It was like, it was her reputation and her-  They knew who she was.
They trusted her, and it-  So um,  plus we had power of attorney at that point, so  managed to get access to that.
And she also- And I also shared with her that I was  switching careers.
And I needed to have like,  and internship, and I needed to-  I didn't really know about RD-WORK-4 like that.
She says,  you need to come up  to RD-WORK-1- we do events all the time.
So I came up,  met with the woman who was doing the-  the events at that time.
Um,  started interning in two thousand  two.
Yeah?
Yeah-  No.
No, no, no.
Two- The end of two thousand two-  Two thousand three.
And  did Icon  for the first time.
This- Our wonderful little event here.
And  did my portfolio on that  and finished  the RD-SCHOOL-4 program.
And uh,  positioned-  Hi.
Hey.
Yeah.
Sure, yeah.
Um, and  a position opened up,  and  got-  got a job.
And then the Special Event job opened up, and  the rest is history, so.
Yeah.
So that's-  Hopefully I'm- I'm providing information that you're looking for.
Okay.
Yeah, take me where you go- Okay.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Um,  I think it would be  um-    You know,  things are gonna happen,  you know?
You're going to- There are gonna be  times when you feel like, why am I going through- Why is this happening to me?
There's a reason that- that you're- that it's happening to you.
You know what I mean?
And as hard- a- as easy it is to say, and I know it's hard to l- to-  to live it,  but  if you can just kind of  endure or- or deal with  or  just not get  um,  uh-  And you're gonna get frustrated, but just don't- don't  give up.
You know, don't let- don't make it be a stopping block.
Because  a couple of months down the road, you gonna look back on and think,  Thank God that happened.
Because they- that's what's sup- That's what got me here.
Or you know, that's what  taught me  that I shouldn't do that or I should do something different.
So, when you- when you come up against hard times,  good times are right around the corner.
That is true.
It is- It is a flat out  fact  that good stuff is- is around the corner, that- to use that  as  um,  an opportunity to grow.
Seriously.
And that sounds so cliche-ish,  but it's the honest to goodness tru- Use that as- as an opportunity to figure out what you're made of.
You know,  and when you look back on it,  you'll see how that truly just  helped you get to where you wanted to be.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
Yes.
Yes, I sure can.
Okay.
Alright, let me talk about mumbo sauce first.
Okay.
So, growing up in my neighborhood there were a lot of carry outs, okay?
Fried chicken wings- A carry out.
I define a carry out  as  run by somebody other than the people in the community .
Typically  from a different country.
Um,  seriously.
That's how they all  were in our neighborhood.
Um, and they-  and at carry outs,  you could get anything from  Chinese food  to hot dogs, fried chicken,  f- french fries.
It was the whole gamut- That's a carry out.
It's just Chinese food.
Very specific thing.
And you don't eat in there.
You go in there.
You order at the counter, and you take your food and you leave.
Okay.
So that's the carry out.
So the carry outs  um-  All I ever got from a carry outs were fried  chicken wings  and french fries.
And the chicken wings were not  chicken wings unless you had the mumbo sauce.
And so  you know- We- And the- And the french fries had to be smothered in ketchup.
Okay?
And they would gladly do that for you.
So um,  there were many a times when  we were just hanging out, like on a Saturday-  We might even have the munchies.
But just hanging out and-  You were hungry.
I mean it wasn't-  My mom fixed a dinner every single night.
Saturday was kind of her day off, so Saturday was the- was the  you know,  carry out.
We had another place called Bluebirds.
And Bluebirds was- had these  dynamite  barbecue sandwiches.
They were like minced-  like North Carolina  barbeque.
Vinegar, not the- not the tomato base.
So it was either Bluebirds or it was- I can't even remember what the carry outs were called.
I mean they were- I  I mean-  I don't even remember.
It's- Yeah.
Exactly.
So yes.
So mumbo sauce is definitely a DC staple.
Everybody-  Everybody knew that you don't get the fried chicken wings unless you got mumbo sauce.
You- you order extra  because you're always gonna need more.
You know.
Okay.
So,  you get the mumbo sauce?
Well you should have gotten extra!
Ho- c- how I'm gonna eat some if I don't have the- okay.
So that was the mumbo sauce.
Um,  go go.
Now  go go was  um-  Back when I was in high school-  Come on.
Hey, yeah.
Come o- Uh-huh.
Okay .
So  um,  I never went  t- to-  We- We call clubs  back- Go gos, right?
Never went to a one.
Never went to one.
And part of the reason is  didn't feel comfortable going to 'em,  felt like I was kind of like- I don't know, I just did.
I just felt like I was  you know-  I just did.
And most of the times they were in neighborhoods where  my mother  uh, wasn't necessarily trying to  you know, have me be down there.
And if I didn't have transportation to a f- I just-  And- and a lot- A couple of girls that I knew used to go,  But like me and- RD-NAME-3 and I, we didn't-  we were more house party  kind of  girls.
You know, or hanging out with people that we knew like that.
So,  there were g-  there were go go clubs um,  and  of course- Now,  we would have- We would play the music at school.
I mean, and we'd be get- We'd be just getting- We'd be  doing our thing at school.
But I never went to-  to the actual clubs.
So definitely go go, but I'm'a tell you my  real experience with go gos.
When I- when I finally  was truly on my own, and I had an apartment on Adelphi Road,  and my neighbors  had a teenage boy.
And  every freaking night, I swear, at two- three in the morning,  Chuck Brown was going hard.
Chuck Brown and EU.
They were going hard,  okay?
I got to the point where it's like,  Okay you know what dude- the first couple of nights, I'm like, okay.
It's- I- I- I c- I understand.
I'm cool.
What are your parents doing right now?
But, okay.
I g- I got you.
Maybe your room is right next to my bedroom and-  It got to be so-  It made me wanna move  because  it was- it- I- I-  I got the point where if I heard another Chuck Brown song,  I was just gonna start throwing things.
That's just me and my little-  Now- Now that I'm out- I moved out of that situation,  I appreciate Chuck a lot better now.
Not at two in the morning.
Unless I'm on the dance floor, and I'm partying.
But I'm not tryna go to sleep.
Right.
Right.
But yeah, they're definitely-  Yeah.
I wasn't super deep.
I was more into funk, you know.
I was more into Parliament.
You know um,  I was more into- Like I said, groups like, War, uh, Earth Wind and Fire.
I was more into those kind of groups.
You know what I mean?
And  I don't know.
I just- I just was more into  the  you know, R and B, funk  kind of thing,  versus the go go thing.