Uh, what was the name of that hospital?
Washington Hospital Center.
Mm.
Well I don't know, only cause  ti-  there's like a bunch.
But I- I would say  mostly Northeast Washington at this point but that's not where I grew up.
I- Well like,  until I was ten I grew up in Adelphi, Maryland, sorry I kicked you.
And then uh, after that Hyattsville, which is really close, so  primarily Prince George's County  until high school.
Yeah uh,  s- what is the name of that-  I don't know what the name of that neighborhood is.
It was basically sixteenth street Northwest and Underwood, it was my grandma's house, so.
It's kind of near Gold Coast, near um  where Walter Reed  was.
Uh, for middle, high, elementary, all of the above?
Oh, okay.
Elementary school, well, RD-SCHOOL-7,  which was PG County.
Then RD-SCHOOL-7,  these are all small and private, FYI.
Um, also in PG County.
Then RD-SCHOOL-3,  just DC.
And undergrad, RD-SCHOOL-3,  law school, RD-SCHOOL-2.
Team lead  um,  on a document review project.
Yeah yeah it's- it's- it's a l- it's a law job.
My dad was born in Rochester, New York but  he lived- he moved- his family moved here  when he was maybe ten I think, so he spent most  of his  youth in DC.
My mom was born in  Baltimore, Maryland.
Then  in high school moved to Parkersburg, West Virginia where part of her family's from until undergrad.
Well,  through undergrad and then she moved into the area as an adult and has been in DC  since then.
They- my dad,  he  origin- he started as a teacher, he went to RD-SCHOOL-3 too for grad school.
So he was- he taught  then he was  in DC on the radio for some years  on RD-WORK-3.
And then he went back to teaching and is now a high school administrator.
And my mom  she's always been administration,  and RD-SCHOOL-5 for like  thirty years and now she's  at-  well,  yeah,  so.
No, she's still at RD-SCHOOL-2, so.
Yeah.
Does that part have to be on the website or whatever you guys are doing?
Okay great.
Okay.
Or like,  might be easy to whittle me down.
Identifying information?
Mm-hm.
Gotcha.
I don't s- really foresee this I just wanna make sure especially since I was talking about my parents, I was like, oh.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh th- they were living in PG County in Adelphi.
I just-  that was the hospital.
Uh, we lived  t- in Adelphi until I was nine, I mighta said ten before, but nine.
And it was a really busy street, it's- it's on RD-ADDRESS-1 Road, the house.
So,  I don't really remember th- I mean I remember the house.
There wasn't much neighborhood wise like,  I'm-  have a brother but he's so much older than me, I was raised as an only child.
So  I wasn't- and I was- you know, until I was nine so I wasn't- it was busy so I wasn't  running the neighborhood and like hanging out with neighbors or other kids it was- if I'm home I was in the house.
Um,   so in term- so there's really  unfortunately not that much neighborhood I can give you.
Now when  my parents separated and my mom and I moved to uh, Hyattsville,  that was a quiet neighborhood, there were lots of kids, bike riding,  tag, that kind of stuff, so.
Um,  but that was Hyattsville and that was when I was in like fourth grade,  so.
Okay.
There wa- yeah I was like, there's not really much to give you there.
Um,   uh, Hyattsville what I remember was mostly-  it was all- it was a black neighborhood, black kids,  um,   I'm  trying to figure out what  you guys are looking for for me to talk about, um, I primarily- I was closest to-  My main friend was  a girl across the street and her family we were always at each other's houses.
Um,  you know, I could eat dinner at her house she could eat dinner at mine, sleepovers, normal  friend, you know, stuff, neighborhood stuff.
Rode bikes,  so a lot of bike riding.
There was-  Yeah it was off of uh, Queen's Chapel.
And so the neighborhood was fairly low traffic, enough where my mom felt comfortable  with uh, me, you know, being able to ride my bike  with at least one other person.
So, yeah.
Maybe within like-  we could kind of g- well,  yeah I'm trying to remember, I don't remember really having much of a curfew but  I've never been one of those ch- children- push boundaries, so.
She never really had to worry about it.
Um,  yeah, we didn't go too far.
There was a park nearby so we could go to the playground over there, ride our bikes to that.
But that's  pretty much what I remember from that.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Uh,  what I remember about  school at least in elementary at RD-SCHOOL-3 bef-  that was  through third grade  was that it was-  I don't know too much about Montessori, what I remember being told was that it's like, a very hands-on  uh,  type of program so I remember not having homework.
Um,  that was more integrated it was-  I remember there being mostly white kids.
I mean that's pretty much my entire educational experience, except for RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,    and yeah, that- so that's really what I remember from New City.
I liked my  third grade teacher,  or first through third grade teacher.
Uh, small class, I feel like in third grade it was only two of us.
But we were in a classroom with other grades, So we would do- they could kind of individualize what we're doing  within a classroom of  not that many  people.
Um, so fourth grade was a sh- s- kind of a weird transition cause that was a much more traditional,  uh,  school  setting.
Still really small, m- uh, I feel like in fourth grade maybe there were  twenty,  somewhere between twenty and thirty kids in the class.
Um, it was religious,  but that was the first time I'd had homework and like traditional  lecture and textbook type of learning.
Mixed,  so it was maybe fifty-ish, fifty-ish.
So that was good.
Montessori I feel like was mostly white, I mean that's going back to third grade so I'm like, uh, I don't remember , I don't- I remem- I mean I feel like there were some black kids there but-  there were s- there were some.
But I feel like it was fifty, fifty.
Didn't feel like much of a transition going from  elementary to middle.
There was a bigger transition going from middle to high school when I went into DC,  cause  that was a  fancier,  much more co- expensive school, and it was s- six out of sixty, I was  one of six out of sixty.
Um,  well you're talking about language, okay so one thing I guess I can think of was  you asked about living in Hyattsville before moving to DC,  where it was a bunch of kids.
That one I felt like  there was a little bit of teasing about  how I talk.
Um,  I mean nothing I- I mean I was okay.
I feel like I- a- I did write my uh,  RD-SCHOOL-2-  RD-SCHOOL-3 uh- well my college  essays on that and to be honest it was kind of playing the  race card a little bit but whatever it worked out, so.
Uh-  I'm gonna own that.
Huh?
It's anonymous.
Huh?
Mm-hm.
Why?
She was just very- she was stern but in a way that was-  that I respected I feel like  as much as I can remember feeling that way as someone who's you know, how old are you in third grade like, nine?
Eight?
I feel like she  demanded the most and out of me, it was  hard on me but  if I did well she rewarded that.
Um, I feel like I went to  fourth grade prepared even though I had had a  totally different  kind of  exper- feel like ev- a lot of the kids  at my middle school had gone to  that same school for third grade or  prior so they were used to homework and things like that.
So I feel like I was still prepared, it wasn't a difficult transition  having homework and writing papers and  having real projects which I just never had  before that, so.
Mm.
That's what I remember, I remember my parents also really liked her too.
Um,  I don't know I guess it was two third graders she really worked with me, and uh, she's the person who taught me to read so I think it was like, you spend three years with someone especially at that age and they really work with you  um,    I feel like that's probably why she was my favorite.
First grade, second grade, and third grade, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah cause I think you stayed in your s- in that s- I feel like I stayed in that same room.
Cause by the time we got to third grade it was only two of us.
And I don't know if they were- I don't know if they were phasing out  that  I have no idea but I know it was only two of us  by the time we got to third grade and I just remember that y-  they still s- had you separate by like what  I'm doing  mathematically is different from what these kids- group of kids is- is doing.
So that's how they did it from what I remember.
That's taking a- a dive  in the memory bank, but that's what I remember.
What do I remember?
Being taught uh, that  I talk  white.
And  I mean I'd grown up-  so like my mom, I wouldn't say my parents,  I love my dad very much but he was not the activity person, like figure out the activities for me, so.
Um,  my mom always made sure to  try to keep me balanced between,  even though I-  growing up I was in these white schools that I was always involved in a black activity so growing up it was very busy like,  ballet class, tap class, they were at the same dance school and it was this-  it was a black uh, dance school.
Uh, and uh,  church was black.
So I always had friends, some of 'em I still keep in touch with from way back then  that were  outside of school and then  I'd come to school but  educationally I'd grown up  around these white kids, so.
The English was proper, I'm not saying that  blacks don't-  not saying blacks can't speak properly, I'm just saying that, you know when you're young you know you're in middle school, so of course you know.
And I'm a little nerdy, I'm an only child, I'm a little weird, you know like all that stuff, so it makes it  pretty easy  to be  you know the  the one to be teased, especially for how I talk, so I used that.
I was like, okay well,    what can I use for this uh-  uh, essay?
You know, cause they say you have to stand out.
You know, using race I'd- you know, you- you- you're the minority in  a white environment, especially by the time I was in high school, diversity, diversity, diversity, that was like all they talked about.
Not all they talked about, that was a big part of it.
And I was like, well I'm going to use that, and   I did.
There we go.
So,  that is it.
Oh, so random story there so he's fif-  fifty two.
And I'm  thirty two.
Um, my mom  had him when she was in high school, and she gave him up for adoption and then we found him.
Which is like a random s- random aside uh, found him in two thousand when I was in-  when I was eighteen so that's what I mean by like,  I have a brother that  I claim and  our families are pretty close now but  growing up  you know, I didn't even- I knew he existed, my mother told me he existed but I didn't know him, none of us did,  so.
That's why I say raised as an only child like, very much- yeah, not even like, oh I have this brother, no, like- Okay.
Oh yeah, no, yeah.
Totally separate lives, yeah.
Well the only family that  I'm really close with-  so my mom's family I'm not that close with.
There's not too many people on that side, most of them are old, like my-  like my mom- like my g- like, grandparent generation so they've pretty much died at this point.
And she has a sister, half sister  um,    who  I know but I'm not that close with,  not for any real reasons just their  lives are very different.
Um,    but the family that I'm closer to is my dad's side, and he has  a brother,  a wife- well,  my    my h- my- his br- my dad's brother is married.
And they have two kids, two sons, my cousins.
So I'm closer to them.
That's like the only like blood family, I would say my m-  my mom  has done a very good job of kind of  making fr- like, people from Parkersburg, West Virginia like,  where she off and on grew up,  she's still like super close to t-  several of those women.
So they're  like, my aunts I would say in terms of like  second family, I'm probably   as close to them  as  my  dad's people.
Put it that way, yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
So I get to see them pretty often, my f-  brother's  family.
They live in Maryland.
Uh, in terms of like the people that I'm referring to like my aunts like,  growing up we would all take vacations together.
They still- my mom and my aunts and they still take vacations together.
Uh, one of their daughters like, I lived with for a whi- so it's, yeah.
Like growing up- like even now we'll  just out of habit say, oh my cousin, even though we're not cousins cause that's how we were like  taught to refer to each other, so.
Uh, yeah.
That's basic background there.
Okay.
Yeah.
Uh, moving to DC, I think my mom's h- I think the house that she was renting-  So we moved into a house after my parents separated and I'm pretty sure the house that we were in  uh, the owner put up for sale.
So we moved in with my grandmom, and she lived on Sixteenth Street, she'd had that house forever, I'm pretty sure it's the house my parents grew up in.
My dad grew up in.
That was the house my dad grew up in.
Um,  so that's why we moved to DC  in another really busy street.
Like, Sixteenth, yeah.
So,  it's like, right near Sixteenth and Military, to give you like a r- yeah, if you n- so,  there again wasn't much  neighborhood activity at that point at fourteen like if I was home, I was home.
There was one of my friends from  high school  uh, lived right at  Sixteenth and Military so I was over her house a lot.
And then  another one of my best friends- I'm still friends with these people,  her fam- h- her  family lives in the Gold Coast area like a few blocks the other way,  on Fourteenth, so there were at least two  good girlfriends that I had,  um,  in that neighborhood but it wasn't like,  oh, let's go meet at the- like before where it's like, oh yeah let's ride our- it's,  I'm coming to your house and we're gonna hang out your house or we are going somewhere, like it was, you know-   No.
Absolutely not and it wasn't even like I'm walking- well, did I-  I might've walked- did I walk to RD-NAME-2 house?
I don't think so, like I remember driving those few blo- I feel like ev-  either one of those houses involved a car.
So,   whether necessary or not.
I think I went to one  hou- the house in the Gold Coast I think I went there once like walked because I didn't have a choice and the air conditioning in my house was broken.
So yeah, it wasn't like a neighborhood-y  hangout type situation.
Which is probably not helpful for you.
Oh okay.
Okay good.
Okay.
Middle school was when I was  in Hyattsville  and that was a lot of bike riding with a bunch of k- there were a bunch of kids in the neighborhood around my age.
And like a typical  quiet  neighborhood-y,  it was black,  being teased a little for  the way I speak which is fine.
And then high school when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, I also  moved to Sixteenth Street  and-  so it wasn't bike riding and  hanging out really in the neighborhood or anything like that.
So RD-SCHOOL-2 is K through twelfth  and  my class, which I believe was typical at least for upper school which is like high school  sixty kids.
I'm not sure if the middle and l-  lower school class sizes were bigger or smaller.
Um,    and that was a school where not  all of the kids, but I remember a large chunk and I don't remember if it was the majority or half  or- or  slightly less than, a lot of them had gone from at least the middle to the upper if not the lower to the middle to the upper but at least the middle.
So there were a lot of kids who  already knew each other by the time I got there.
Um,  so that was probably a big shift for me, it was a big shift for me.
Because I was used to growing up at least at school with it being mixed.
And in a different  socio-economi- being surrounded by kids who were middle class like  closer to what my parents were  or on the same page, and then a lot of the kids there, it was mostly white and a lot of them had a lot of money.
My parents are educated but  they're, you know, are not writing checks for fifteen thousand dollars a year to go to anybody's high school, so.
It was a little different.
And it was only six of us  versus like, half.
If that makes sense.
Ooh, sorry.
Salad in my teeth.
Uh, I appreciated  it more after I left.
I feel like I was-  I liked-  when I was t-  that was my first choice so when I was looking at schools  and went to a bunch of different schools-  I had been at private school my whole life with the exception- I forgot there was  a month maybe that I was at public school, Hyattsville Middle,  cause that's- I was begging my mom to put me in public school and she had done some volunteer work with  Hyattsville Middle, so I really wanted to go, and then I got there and I was totally overwhelmed like,  getting lost in the- I mean this sounds terrible but it's true.
Getting lost like trying to find my class.
Because my mom had done volunteer work they had put me in these higher level math class and I'm sitting there like I have no clue what's going on.
It was- I'm used to s- you know,  if you're stuck, like I'm used to small class sizes, people being able to work with you, I didn't have access to any of that.
And it was just like, okay well thank you so much for letting my have my way, can I go back?
So I went right back to RD-SCHOOL-4.
That was seventh grade.
So at that point  when I went to high school I was  pretty much all private school and I'd had enough of my- a public school experience to know that  I- I-  I got lost, so I just said, you know let's  keep it to what I know.
And uh, I feel like I might've looked at one public school and I can't remember which one it is.
But it was mostly privates but  t- uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 was my top choice, I was on the waitlist.
I got in  and I l- I really was excited.
I liked how open the school looked, there's like bright  sun roof atriums, small classes, things that I had known from that  one  quick public school experience that  I know I like to have  just to be able to learn.
So um,    I was excited about that, the teachers seemed nice  and when I started  I can't say they weren't nice, I just-  I don't think I was prepared for  what it was like to shift from being  such a minority,  like going from like fifty fifty, being around kids who you'd kind of grown up with from like  being ten years old to like fourteen.
You know where  everyone's kind of in the same page to like  white, wealthier children.
And it wasn't that anyone was mean.
And then I just remember you know I'm still  in these activities I'm still  going to my church, I'm-   I wasn't doing dance anymore but  I had switched to a black swim team I feel like was like my main  activity  that point, I was terrible at that.
Um, oh yeah I was t- that's a story.
Um,  an embarrassing one.
And- but I mean I still had all these friends so I was little like-  a little jealous I guess of  you know them kind of going to school and  being part of an experience of, you know, community and  you didn't really have that at RD-SCHOOL-2.
But it wasn't that it was an unpleasant atmosphere or anything like that  and  I know I got a good education, I recognized that when I was there but it was just kind of a-  in that sense it was kind of a drag.
So like,  I made friends with this one black girl,  and then um, that didn't really work out.
Um,    she had some issues, I made friends with another one who I'm still friends with to this day so that was nice.
And there were a couple like, non-black kids that I am actually still friends with  but I just missed- I just missed being around a mixed environment.
Um,  so it wasn't anything wrong with the school, it was nothing they did it was just like  I'm not used to feeling  kind of  outsider-ish.
But it was cool.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah cause you want stories.
Well- well,  it wa- mm  go ahead, alright.
We can put that one on the back burner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
So I went to- well there was w-  When I was a kid,  my parents were together, it was like my grandma wanted to go to- my dad's mom  was a member of  a church  All Souls,  and I feel like that was mixed.
And then   my best girlfriend now that's how we became friends, we went to dance school together.
The black dance school.
And sleepover on a Saturday had me with her family on Sunday  to- at this black church, People's  Congregational.
Um,  and uh,  I just fell in love with it mainly because I feel like at  All Souls there weren't as many-  like the- the kid program it existed but it wasn't  that  big a deal.
And then when I went to Sunday school with my friend  it was just  a bunch of kids my age, they were engaged in what was going on so it was nice to like-  It felt like they had a bigger sense of- a stronger sense of community as much as I could feel that, I c- I'm sure I couldn't articulate that when I was in like third grade or whatever but I felt that.
And I liked it and I  like  told my mom how much I liked it and  she was like, alright, I'll give it a shot, and she still goes there to this day, yeah.
And-  So I'm really good friends still with  my friend who introduced me to the church who I went to dance school with and now m- her mother and my mother are really close now too so our families have become very close.
Um,  but I would say that that-  that bond was between dance and mainly church.
Cause all- both our families continue to attend that church  beyond our time at the dance school.
If that makes sense.
No.
but growing up- so to  t- I guess  talk more about that like,  so I liked the k- the- the youth aspect of it.
Cause they had class every Sunday, they had a youth usher program,  I could tell the kids were pretty close.
Um,   I got confirmed there, I'm still friends with those people who I was confirmed with in like sixth grade.
It was just very  close knit,  the people there.
Um,  it was a lot of people-  How do I do this?
There were-  I hate how I sound sometimes but I'm trying to give you the real.
Uh, it was a lot of  professional  um, black families there.
So it was just very rela- it mean it was just very relatable to my life it was like a bunch of kids who were kind of in the s- a lot of them were  at places like Maret or uh,    what do you call it?
Uh, NCS things like that, and there were also kids who were in public school so I mean you had all of that.
Just a bunch of middle class black families so that was nice.
Um, they'd have  plays and you know the typical church stuff.
Um,  there was a Christmas program that  you know we still go to on- you know up  to now like, it was just that very close thing, like you knew you were gonna get the same formula every Sunday.
Our family sat in the balcony, you knew what you were gonna g- like, you just always knew what you were gonna get.
Um, and it was- I liked that.
And so like, my mom became involved, I was involved up until the point where I was like, listen I'm not doing these  plays anymore like, I'm old.
Like,  I'm doing this.
I'm too old for thi- yeah I'm like,  fourteen and she's-  no I'm not do- Mom, no.
Like I'll still go to whatever but  this part of-  this part of the  chapter is-  is closed.
Um,  so it was like that.
Yeah.
And like so,  though g- so, when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, I still have all these relationships like, most of- so there were two black kids who were at my middle school  who also went to People's with me.
It was a guy and a girl.
So I maintained that friendship but most of the other kids I feel like from middle school I didn't really keep in touch with past middle school except for them who were still at my church.
And  those relationships were just really close so a lot of my  social weekend time throughout high school was hanging out with those people versus  the people that I had met at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Outside of like-  yeah, kind of outside of like  the  three  maybe n- that's probably a lie, th- outside maybe like the f-  the six or seven  pretty much black kids  um,  not the only black kids at RD-SCHOOL-2 but there were about six or seven black kids at RD-SCHOOL-2 that I would consistently would hang out with like  on weekends after school.
And also alternatively  kids that I had grown up with at church.
So I always was kind of drawn to that which is w- another reason why I always felt like a little  isolated at  RD-SCHOOL-2, which I'm sure is as much my- it's-  it's  in large part my fault.
I mean I could've made more of an effort but  you know.
I like what I like.
I sound racist.
A little bit.
I sound a little racist.
And I don't even- I don't even mean like- cause I said I'm- I-  there are other people and even in college that kind of shifted a little bit.
But  I just missed that a lot, that's what I'm used to like, that was my life.
I go to a black church, I had gone to like a mixed elementary and middle  I ended up at this high school where it was just affluent and white and it was just- it was different, it was even different from like  the socio and ec- economic  level-  class level of  white people that I had been exposed to up in that point so it was just a little foreign to me I didn't really- yeah, it took a while for me to kind of like, adjust to that.
That's the best way I can explain it.
Hm.
Hope I don't come off racist.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
No that I was just terrible at it like-  so when I tried out for the team-  I've always been like an overweight child and adult.
So,  I don't really enjoy activities that make me out of breath, I never enjoyed exercise.
Dance even was like, obnoxious except for tap, I liked tap I actually did well in that.
I got a scholarship that was exciting.
For one  year.
Um,  Swimming was not like that,  swimming was awful.
So swimming was-  another one of my friends, I'm not really friends with her anymore but  um, another one of my friends who I had grown up with,  she was on the swim team, it was an all black team, PG County.
And I'm at RD-SCHOOL-2 at this point and  there's no more dance, I'm looking for something and she went from like, no lie-  Well how old were we?
We were like fourteen, so  she's tall.
She went from over two hundred pounds to like  one fifty, like she had  went cr- she  metamorphosized  and I'm looking like,  that's what I'm gonna do, so, and it's a black activity, so I did that.
And um,    I did lose weight but not like her.
And  I remember when I tried out  or they went- they wanted- not try out, they assessed me to see where I was.
And I got out of the pool after doing like  four laps or something like I almost vomited.
I didn't even know that s- I didn't- I had swam my whole life like, for fun, recreationally, but I didn't even know that swimming could make you out of breath until  that one- for that first time.
And I was so slow that for  a very long time  on that team I was swimming with the little kids in practice.
until they just said, RD-NAME-3 that's enough.
And I was like, well I don't know what you want me to do.
And then they gave me fins  which, for those who don't know, propels you.
And everyone else would you know, do practice without fins and  when I was with my age group and I would practice with fins so that I could keep up.
And then, there would- we'd also like    always kind of feel bad for people at a swim meet  where they were so slow that like, everyone else would be done and they'd get like the pity clap.
See I just feel like the whole set up was wrong like maybe I just shouldn't have done it because  the fact that I had to swim with these children  and then they put me in fins to keep up with my age group.
So then they put me in these competitions where you know I'm clearly not gonna-  So I remember I went to this one meet like went all the way to Atlanta  and one of these chicks that I was in the m-  in the  heat with  her brother- these were black people too,  her brother was  in the Olympics, I had no business.
And so like,  the team had like split up cause there was some kind of coup, I don't even remember all this drama but there was some kind of drama.
And the team had split in half and I remember  the one coach  who used to be with the team that I had stayed with, he wasn't even  part of my team anymore, I didn't have any beef with him,  like he was on the sideline like encouraging me during this  heat that I- that I- this competition cause it was so bad and he felt so bad for me.
I mean he mighta done it anyway but  he was trying to get me just up and down, cause I was like about to quit while I was swimming and  I remember like- so you go up and back and up and back.
Like my last up and back  like I still had one more lap to go up and back and people were already finished and standing  in the water, waiting for me to go up  and back.
Humiliated.
Jumped out of the water, all kinds of pity clap, I just jumped out of the water, like ran to the bathroom, my mom's like, oh you're f-  Don't do this.
Like I'm always been a realistic, don't- don't do this.
It was terrible.
It was terr- what are you talking about?
I was so pissed.
I feel like  I was also pissed because  you know I had had enough experiences swimming that I was like,  I could at least kind of keep up but at that point I knew at that meet that I was way out of my league and I feel like  part of y'all's job as  adults  let alone coaches or whatever is to like  recognize when people just don't need to, you know.
Cause I would've been fine with that.
I was not an over-achiever when it came to swimming, that was just supposed to be something social  and exercise.
Not  scar me and humiliate w-  humiliate me and have people literally stand there waiting for me to f- it was- it was awful.
That was it, that- that was my swimming story.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was-   it w- it is- it's a great story now, at the time it was  awful.
And I did get to lose some weight so that was- that was nice.
I didn't  get as slim as she did.
So, that's okay though.
Yeah.
It served it's purpose.
No problem.
I'm glad I'm h- I can always entertain.
Mm-hm.
Absolutely not.
No no no, that was literally just for- that was the purpose it served like, social,  black  exercise.
Because I'd wanted to go there since I knew what New York- I'd always wanted to live in New York.
And  I remember in seventh grade I like went to visit the school, so not like on an official like,  that sounds crazy but  my godsister, who I'm still close with to this day, she lived in New Jersey  and  I would visit her and on one of those trips when I was in like, middle school  I went to  New Jersey and she  took me to RD-SCHOOL-3's campus and I was just like,  this is it.
Um,  but I always knew I wanted to move to New York, I just didn't-  like growing up-  I didn't travel a whole lot  like growing up but I  traveled enough like  parents kept me  pretty exposed like not much internat- not-  huh.
I guess Aruba was the only international traveling I had done  to that point but enough around the country to kn-  know that I really liked New York, I felt like there was nothing else like it,  and I had wanted do that since I was- I remember my first trip to New York with my parents  in like f-  second grade maybe at like Christmas time and I was just like, this is it.
And so in seventh grade  I knew for sure like, okay RD-SCHOOL-3 is it.
And I went to other schools in that area  and always liked NYU, I didn't like Columbia, not that I would've gotten in.
I didn't like Barnard, not that I would've gotten in.
And I really liked RD-SCHOOL-3.
Fordham was cool,  but I really liked RD-SCHOOL-3.
So, that's how I ended up there.
Um,  I didn't get into my first choice program though.
But that's okay, I eventually got there.
Well,  I  applied for the communications program.
Oh I forgot in terms of my education, hm,  I- I also did  a summer between    eleve-  yeah.
So my summer between eleventh and twelfth grade I went to Syracuse.
I knew in high school that I wanted to major in communications so  they had a communications high school- communications program where you could earn college credit so I did that for that summer going into my twelfth grade and I wanted it to-  I wanted something to put on my like, application to college.
So I did that  and-  so I knew I either wanted to go to Syracuse or NYU, I really wanted to go to NYU,  that w- I- I did early decision.
And Syracuse was my second choice cause Syracuse had the number one communications school I remember that.
Um,  so I like applied for that but  they put me in general studies program which was dubbed generally stupid people because it was the program that they put you in for two years  um,   when you've applied for  anything else  in the university  but they think you need a little  extra something.
Which I always thought was  stupid because  my friends who got into like college of arts and sciences, what they applied for, did not have as much homework as I did so they always kind of laughed at me about how like  I was in this kind of  almost secondary  situation  even though I had a lot more work.
And it didn't matter because you did  two years  um,    in uh-  like taking  the basic like  col- uh,  what do you call that?
Like arts and sciences courses that  you would take  in other programs and then you  have to reapply for your major so I reapplied for communications and did that.
Um,   so that's it.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well I did  sort of.
N-  uh- uh not majorly, I'd- I was part of the gospel choir,  I really missed singing.
I'd done singing in the  high school choir- well I guess that wasn't choir, what do you call that?
Maybe chorus?
I feel like choir has somewhat of a religious thing, maybe not.
I don't- I'm not really sure but whatever the singing thing was in high school I did that, I wanted to keep doing it so I did it  for the gospel choir  um, at RD-SCHOOL-3.
And I feel like there was some kind of diversity  similar to like  black student something, that I went to meetings to  very occasionally.
I was not very involved.
Um,    and I did some internships  and I flirted with the idea of going to film school when I was there.
When I had to redeclare my major again-  not redeclare but when I had to apply for my major after  general studies I  kind of flip flopped between do I wanna  do communications, stick with that or do I wanna go to film school cause they have a really good film school.
But I was a little too intimidated so I went- I stayed with communications.
No, law school was a disaster.
So I went to-  I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3  and moved back home  and  worked for-    so I graduated in two thousand- I worked at Howard for a second.
And then-  maybe like six months.
Is that right?
And then from there I  star- I did  like  temp work, one of the temp  to- to hire jobs was at American Institute of Architects,  so I worked there as an admin assistant.
That was kind of just by  chance.
And  it's not-  not her fault, I was grown up I made my own decisions but you know,  you need to go get a graduate degree, you need to get a graduate degree before you get married and have a family which I still don't have, so whatever.
The point is  I was told this is what I was supposed to do.
It was  beat over my head.
So, you don't wanna be like me you know, I was  trying to finish, I started and then I stopped and then  you know, I had you and yeah I was  trying to finish that and with you, you don't wanna do th- ugh.
And then my boss,  she said the same thing  So I was like, fine.
It was a little bitter because- this sounds terrible.
I'll- I'll be quiet.
Karma's awful so let me just be quiet.
Um,    uh, well I was gonna say that they had some- they had- they did some downsizing,  but you'd get some kind of severance, and it was right when I was about to go to law school and I would never wish to be like,  laid off, cause unemployment sucks, been there, but I'm just saying that like you know would've been really nice.
But they knew I was going to law school so they wouldn't give it to me.
The point is  I went from- it went to-  from AIA, American Institute of Architects, I'm an assistant,    from two thousand six maybe to two thousand nine, when I went to law school which was-  I don't know how I feel about that decision, so.
Mm I didn't  ever think that I could do law school  but  I- after graduating and moving back home I- all these  kids went to law school.
And then I talked to some who were at Howard  My um-   and- and- and they kept telling me like,  RD-NAME-3 they are s- I- I swear there are some incredibly  not bright people who  we have gone to law school with, you'll be fine.
And I was like, are you sure?
And they were like, yeah.
And at the time the economy was different cause I was  applying like,  started taking the test and all that stuff so that had to be two thousand-  wait a minute, I f- got my acceptance letters March two thousand nine.
So I had been preparing two thousand eight before the economy went to, you know-  So,  when I was applying,  you graduate,  get this good job,  and life is grand  except  you know once I got in it, the economy tanked and-  So our-    a lot of our experiences for those who graduated in two thousand twelve when I did,  it wasn't as- yeah, wasn't as carefree as other people I had  talked to who had graduated several years  in front of me.
But I did enjoy Howard,  and  um-   There were quite a few.
And um,    lifelong friends who I will have  forever I believe.
Um,    who I was just hanging out with yesterday, one of which you know.
So yeah I mean that part of it was good, and everyone kept telling me you can do anything with a law degree.
But it- my heart's never been in law, like I never wanted to practice.
And I mean maybe this is partly my fault too, I graduated and  that  exam has not worked out for me and  I don't- I don't really wanna practice so I- then I started feeling like, why do I keep taking it if this isn't what you wanna d- and it was- so it was like a whole bunch of  things tied up into it like- probably should've taken these off.
I- I  I w-  glad I got the terminal degree and    I'm glad that it was Howard  and  it's just my heart was not  in law and I-  it's-  still not, so  that's why I made the face about law school.
I should've probably gotten an MBA but you know hindsight's always twenty-twenty as they say, so here I am.
Hm?
Because this is a very typical path that you take  if you're looking for a job after law school.
Well the- okay so document review is basically the discovery process of-  I don't know how familiar  you or the other  people who'd be listening to this are with document review but  basically discovery process, so when two parties are  litigating, there are all these documents that have to be reviewed whether it's privileged, confidential, things like that.
Basically categorize for discovery so  they need people generally  lawyers or at least JDs like me to review it.
So,  that's how I ended up doing that.
I actually  clerked for a year  afterwards  um,    and that was an enjoyable exper- I mean you get a really  up close look at how the court system works  and- so that was good.
It did show me again that I really don't wanna practice, so  it eliminated that for good and then after that I worked for  DC government.
And that was fun.
Um,   and then my contract ended.
So,  I  jumped on doc review projects  while I was-  after I studied for the bar that time and I've kind of been bouncing around on projects while I look for  something else that  maybe could allow me to use my law degree but not  a practice.
Yeah.
Okay.
Good.
Sure.
Yeah.
Um,    Not as much as I  as I should be, I mean growing up there was always a trip to a museum.
But if you ask me anything about that now I'd be like, Mm-mm-mm.
Um,  if that makes s-  you know like I remember going to see the big dinosaur, so that was Natural History, I remember seeing the-  the diamond which was-  that's Natural too, isn't it?
I feel like I've seen a lot of these Smithsonian museums, I actually worked for the Smithsonian  every summer like in high school  at their, uh,  their big festival for some reason I can't remember it right now, the name of it.
But I worked for a festival every summer.
Not that that really involved touristy things so I would say that I've- I've done a lot of touristy things.
Uh,  even the last few years like made it a point to go see Martin Luther King and  a couple weeks ago I went  down to the Lincoln Memorial.
FDR, I've s- I've seen all of them, the World War Two, the Korean.
So yeah I'd say I've been a t- I'd- I'd say so, I haven't seen everything.
But  I've- I've spent time doing that.
Hm.
I feel like  I like any one that involves water, and I feel like the FDR one involves water but I- mm.
I know World War Two involves water.
This is terrible.
But that's how I feel, I really like the water ones.
I would say one of my favorites  is also the Korean one cause it's those statues of the men,  but it  at night kind of creeps me out a little bit, it's a little eerie.
It's probably not the right reason to like or dislike a memorial but I- I do like that one a lot too.
Yeah, it's different, I like that.
So those are probably my favorites.
I don't remember why I lied FDR that much, but I've been there a couple times I remember I really liked it.
I'm not very good with history, so.
It's like aesthetic purposes as to why I would like  all of these, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh and Martin Luther King too.
Because-  well actually no I-  in- in seriousness I do like that one cause it's like  huge and in his likeness.
I can't  say I- that one's not on the list.
I just- my first one I j- jumped to is the water,  so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't?
Do know?
Yeah, no it definitely has changed.
I'm probably not- one, I'm not very observant but  I mean  I have noticed that change.
Just like growing-first, kindergarten, first, second- or f  just honest and if- any of my friends will tell you the same thing.
Um,   my neighbor last week was like, you're not very observant, and I was like,  Mm.
Mm-hm I tried to tell you.
Uh,   yeah so I notice that neighborhoods like where I live now Fort Totten,  you didn't see  white  people walking through the neighborhood the way you do now.
Especially- well, no.
Period.
Boom.
Um, and you just  neighborhoods that have historically f- in my experience been black,  you suddenly see  white people moving into them,    um, like from a residential perspective like my neighborhood where I live now.
Uh,  I know down by Howard,  U Street in general, pretty much kind of  anywhere, Capitol Hill,  like places where you just-  growing up when I'm a kid you just didn't see  them.
You see them kind of like, everywhere.
And    I don't mean that to be racist I just mean that like  you just-  you see f-  it's a different-  it's a different group of people.
You see neighborhoods changing, you see a lot more restaurants and businesses popping up  where  they weren't before.
Neighborhoods where people- you know, you can walk around  not  being in fear in the night- in the darkness, um, all those things that come with gentrification so it's really different.
And it's also hard not- huh?
No I was gonna say it's also like- it's interesting y- for y- for you to hear people that don't notice that.
One, just  from someone who's  like  self-admittedly not observant to also like  growing up here, you talk to anyone who grows up here you know that.
I mean even  the w-  w- woman who I would claim is my cousin  who's not, uh, I- she lives in Fort Totten too,  and I used to live with her.
She's now married, she married a white guy.
They have a baby.
And I mean she even talks about it, she's like, yeah the neighborhood's filling with a lot of-  the- DC is filling with a lot of families like mine, like a lot of blended families and white families, and  she grew up on Columbia and she's like, I  don't remember DC being like- it's just weird, people who grew up in this area  they talk about it so it's  interesting that people wouldn't notice at least like someone would  point it out to you.
Oh.
Okay.
It feels like it doesn't affect me  personally but in my  pocket book because things are more expensive, so.
I feel like that's how it affects me.
Um,  it's also like  I like- and maybe this is like the t- I don't know if this is the typical gentrification conversation but  I like  what-  I like to see some of the changes that I see in DC I like seeing new businesses, I like that  I feel if I go out  there's so many new  restaurants, bars, whatever that I can  choose to-  you know cause it's so much new  coming into DC.
But it's sad, I mean you grow- like,  okay so growing up for me I thought all cities were like DC.
So I thought  it would be-  I thought other cities were mostly black, I thought  other cities  were mostly black  professionals.
And not to say that doesn't exist other places but I always thought it was in- it was t- highly cult-  uh, concentrated like it is here and then  the older  I get and the more I travel and  kind of pay attention as much as I'm capable of paying attention to things  outside of myself, um,    I'm like, oh it's not like this everywhere, DC is a little unique.
It's very unique, so  it's bittersweet in the fact that  unfortunately  as  the city changes  it's bringing in a lot of stuff that's good,  but  it's-  I- it's- it's- it's sad to think about  i-  if it continues at this rate,  if all the black people move out,  that's obviously sad that  we won't be here at all  if things continue.
So.
I would say that part is sad.
And you're just- it's just- it's- it's a unique experience, now that I'm older and I'm an adult and I understand it, it's a unique experience to walk around a neighborhood and  you see a bunch of black people who are like-  I don't say black people don't do well, but just so many  uh,  families that have been there for generations or  you know.
Even if they haven't been there for generations like  professional, it's just  to think of that culture leaving the city is  sad.
Yeah, but    I'm- I d- I do like what-  I do- I d- I d- I d- in some sense like it cause it is new and the neighborhoods are changing like, I don't remember there being much to do in- in Brookland.
Like cause I lived in Brookland too.
At some um,    like w- well my mom did when I was in college so that's where I would come home to and  there wasn't much happening then and now like, one of my friends just moved kind of to that area and there's all kinds of stuff to do over there now.
So I mean in-  that's nice.
But  you know.
Law school.
We were in the same section.
Section three, that's where  I feel like  at least  at Howard  for my class, I can't speak for other classes,  you-  I uh, most-  most people seem to kind of- you make that foundation  with the people cause l-  law school can take a lot of your spirit and soul and  you really come to rely heavily  on  the-  the friends that you make especially early on cause it's just- it demands so much of you.
And  so you-  the- lot of people I noticed in our class  y- the people that they made friends with early on are the people that they remain closest to  throughout the three years so he was in that group of people  in my section  that  we've just all been really close  since then.
So I'm a  little- I would call my- I guess I would say I'm a film buff so this is hard.
I don't know.
I hate that question actually, that's like my least favorite question.
Um,  cause I really don't, I mean-  Okay there let's- that's a lot easier to do, so I r-   I would say uh,  I really like Birdman which won the last  Oscars, I just thought it was different and  unique  in telling a story, I also liked that it was kind of a parody on the people who were in it too.
Like I feel like Michael Keaton kind of played himself, I feel like what's his face who's name is escaping me kind of played himself, the other main guy in it, he's from Colu- he's from here, he's from Columbia.
What is your name?
Dude who was in-  oh my god.
For some reason his name isn't here, it has left, but I- th- he- I felt like he was kind of playing himself so I'd say that was the last movie that I really liked that I've seen.
I mean I really liked Straight Outta Compton too and  it's not a favorite.
It's not a favorite but that was one of the- I'm thinking of one of- some of the last movies I saw.
I like that one.
I liked it.
I thought it was good.
It was b-  It exceeded my expectations.
Yeah it's- I thought it was worth it.
Felt like, you know.
T- it gave me- I feel like that was a-  that w- w- I feel like N.W.A.
was  the generation before me, I didn't grow up on them.
So it was interesti- but you know who they are.
So it was interesting seeing that story cause I didn't know it.
No, which one is that?
Who's they?
Oh.
Okay yeah no I have not seen that one.
I've gotten away from going to the movies the way I used to and I told myself I was gonna get back into it.
Um,    but yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Um,    so,  that was one good thing was RD-SCHOOL-2 had a go go for homecoming every year.
And Junk Yard would come.
So-  You're not from DC, right?
Okay.
So,   growing up in-  going to high school in DC.
I don't- I don't- still don't know why  this ha- I like- I literally to this day I would love for someone to tell me why.
But  schools like RD-SCHOOL-2,  there was one at I wanna say Sidwell,  there might have been one at NCS, I know what-  ugh, give-   What did- Holton I feel like had one, if not Holton then maybe it's Brother's School but all of these  mostly white affluent schools, at least when- you know,  the late nineties,  they would have- they would host go gos.
So, yeah.
So my school was one, so every year for homecoming we had Junk Yard.
And then-  yeah, so these bands, and like the major ones, would go to these white schools and I don't know why.
I- I would love for somebody to tell me why, I don't know why.
Um,    and so it would-  it would bring  a  different dynamic  to the school at least for that evening which was interesting, so I would attend those.
and one of my friends growing up  um,   who went to my middle school with me and my church,  he was  into it like, I feel like if I remember  he  would like carry drums for like Backyard or something, I mean maybe that's not true maybe I'm exaggerating, I feel like it was some band that he really kind of like knew them and  maybe would like, kind of help out a little bit if I remember.
But he was like into it so sometimes I would go with  him and his friends or I feel like if you-  feel like at that age in high school espe- like if you hear about one  that's at one of those high schools that I mentioned or you just hear about one period,  you'd go to it.
I feel like the friend that I mentioned, the guy,  I went with him and his friends to the Black Hole  at least once.
Which was like awful.
But um,  cause it was just like- it's one thing to go to like-  I'm sure I sound racist and now I sound like something else but that's fine.
Um,  so it's different to go to the ones that were at like the schools,  and then to go to that,  where  you know,  I got separated from them at one point which was a mistake cause I was like, I wanna go to the front, and it was just- it was just bad, you know it was just- it was different.
But it w- it was alright, it was fun.
Yet bad.
Um,  so yeah I- I- I attended.
And then in college when I would come home,  um,    my mostly non-high school friends would-  I mean I guess the black kids who went to RD-SCHOOL-2 would go too.
Yeah, I feel like-  yeah.
I went.
I was there.
Wasn't as into it as my friend who was like, carrying equipment.
And I wasn't into it like I wasn't going to the mall to buy the tapes.
But I would enjoy it when it was on the radio,  and I would attend them  when I would hear about them.
Um,  and that was something that I feel like growing up I didn't even realize that was unique to DC until  you meet kids who like  didn't really grow up here and  then they'd be like-  oh especially when I went to college,  I'd bring my f-  like, one of my friends who from college bring her home and she would come home and visit with me and she'd be like, what is this?
She didn't say, what is this she knew what it was cause she had family here but she would be like, every time I hear this I don't get it.
And I'm like,  what do you mean you don't get it?
It's music.
I didn't realize how unique it was until like I'm a little older.
But yeah.
It's still fun when it comes on the radio it's like nostalgic.
I mean I've eaten it.
It's-  I mean it's something that I feel like you get on your fried chicken when I would  you know, uh-  go to carry outs and whatnot growing up.
Um,   something else I didn't really realize was unique to DC until I got older.
It's tasty.
It's  red in color,  sweet in taste,  usually some kind of uh,    not  jelly but  almost like a sweet and sour sauce is probably the closest, uh, thing I can think of.
But it's just something I feel like you just-  it's just one of those cultural things to DC that you just grow up with that you don't even think about.
Yeah I didn't know that.
Yeah.
Um,    I feel like  that's someth- there was-  they weren't really in my neighborhoods growing up,  but there was one across the street from my dance class, which is why I've always been fat and-  I shouldn't say that cause I didn't go that often but  you know, that's one of the reasons.
There was one near my church although my dance school and my church were kind of in the same neighborhood.
Um,  I remember one of my friends got robbed and I laughed at her,  um-    It's not funny I just didn't really like her, but she- she got robbed.
Like, he didn't have a gun, he pretended to have a gun and robbed her and she was-  and she should have been traumatized,  but a bunch of us, you know, when you're young and you're mean,  we chuckled, not to her face.
Um,  so that's just one of the memories that I have when I think of carry outs, but I mean   I try not to go that often, they're not very healthy.
I feel like when I got older and I moved back to DC there are things that are open  very late at night  after  clubs and whatnot when you're inebriated.
I hope that doesn't make it to the final cut of this uh, video but that's  I feel like their  purpose  primarily in my life where  I would attend randomly like growing up and  very often  at three AM after being at somebody's party.
No.
N- no all of the above.
Like I feel like   I feel like I've probably eaten at them maybe when I was in high school but  I feel like when I was older and I would go, you go, you order your meal,  there are a bunch of  graphics on the wall, pictures of the food.
A lot of times you would l- say, I'd like number eleven,  or you say, I would like the three wings,  mumbo sauce,  fries with ketchup,  whichever is your- you know,  tickles your fancy, and I would usually take it and go eat it at home.
Uh,  plus I feel like here a lot of the carry outs are also like Chinese food places  too, so it's  I feel like you can get Chinese food  or wings,  or pizza,  or subs and I don't know if that's unique to DC,  but that's kind of like how I envision it.
Yeah.
Okay.
It is a one stop shop.
I've never ordered a pizza from one of those places though cause  it's not some- yeah, I would think that's not their specialty.
Mm.
I would  think that I probably wouldn't have much advice for an old person.
But- Mm, it's true.
I don't know.
Uh,  I don't know, maybe  for me,  I guess one piece of advice is-  Okay.
I guess from someone who  has grown up with education being such a central part of  my life with parents who were involved in education and  have had a- have had a lot of it is, uh,  you don't have to-  especially in today's day in age, you don't have to think of that- you don't have to think of going that traditional  path.
Think about what you want,  and if there's an alternative route to- maybe I shouldn't say that in a university study but  listen, you guys take a lot of our money, okay?
Um,    if there's  another  way to get there,  don't be afraid to think of that.
Save you some coins.
Um,  So that- that probably'd be the advice I'd give, think about what you really wanna do,  and go after that, and if it's not a traditional  route,  don't be  afraid of that.