Went to pick my medicine up, and they got it all mixed up and now they don't wanna fix it.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Goodness.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
I tell you-  I'll tell you.
Mm.
Well he's a big help to me so  cause he brought the medicine home,  and they mess up.
He just went back  to try to get it fixed and they still don't wanna do it  right.
Okay, um,    let's see.
One of the girls in the group that I-  that sing w- in the Uniques,  her mother,  her name was Ms RD-NAME-2.
At the time, she  our mothers,  and  a friend of hers that she worked with  was getting married.
And so they wanted- She um-  she needed somebody to sing,  so  Ms RD-NAME-2 told her about me.
And so um,  I s- I sang at their wedding,  at this lady's wedding.
And Ms RD-NAME-2-   Oh it was- Her name's RD-NAME-2 now, but at the time it was Ms RD-NAME-2.
And she uh, was telling me-  She knew I was available then-   about uh,  this  brother that the  groom  to be has, and he was a nice looking young man.
So you might be-  take a interest.
Check him out when you- when you meet him.
So,  w- we had the w- the wedding rehearsal, and then so at that point I didn't even- I sang and everything went okay.
And she introduced us, and he was nice.
Unintelligible.
That was it.
So we went to the reception,  and,  instead of him paying me attention,  his brother was paying me attention  who was RD-NAME-1- my husband there RD-NAME-2.
And we sat across the room eyeballing each other most of the night.
Finally he came over and we danced,  and then we got to talking and talking talking and  the rest of it all from there.
Yeah, we- we dated for f- for like, five years.
Mm-hm.
And  I think he was dragging his feet.
And so  by this time, I was  twenty eight.
Mm-hm.
When we got married, I was twenty eight.
And I said to him, look, you know, we ain't getting no younger, and I  really would like to have a child before I'm thirty or by the time I'm thirty .
And so, what you gonna do?
So- Cause we weren't seeing anyone else, so.
He decided, okay, well we'll do it, so  we went on and  got married May  twenty seventh, nineteen  seventy eight.
And had a nice wedding at Shiloh and  that-  uh-  that was a kind of church where you opened a wedding up to the whole congregation so.
So,  it was- it was a very nice wedding.
I had  my sister and  three other young ladies were bridesmaids,  and uh- S-  So I think- I thought that was a big wedding.
That wasn't no big wedding, but I thought it was a big wedding, for me.
And so it was real nice.
It- it-  it had a good number of people, and  um,  RD-NAME-2's Godmother,  she was a caterer, and also she was one of the teachers when I worked at RD-WORK-2.
So she  did- catered the uh, dinner at the church.
And so that was very nice, and so  Well there was another teacher at the school,  who allowed us to have  the after-  after church  party at her house.
And she lived in Southeast.
Her name was um,  Miss RD-NAME-2,  and she's gone now.
And uh,  so that was nice.
That's where we were able- We had it out  in her backyard.
It was really nice, and  danced and j- just had a great time.
It was a good time.
And so- We m- um-  Well he was in- No.
Let me see.
Yeah, he was living in uh, Ch- Chillum, Maryland.
On out on Chillum Road, and at-  I was living on Longfellow Street at the time.
Northwest  up by him.
What was that up by?
It was almost to Military Road.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And so  I liked that apartment.
I wanted to stay there but  his was a little bigger.
So we moved- moved to Chillum,  and we stayed there.
And then when RD-NAME-2 came,  they wanted- Cause we lived up on a-  over  people so this apartment wanted us to move down on the  r-  um,  ground level since we had a child now.
And- but  um, we didn't- well he didn't wanna be down on the ground level with a child.
So we f- moved to um,  another location.
Where was that?
On Russell Avenue  which is off of Eastern Avenue in um,  Mount Rainier,  Maryland.
Mm-hm.
And  we stayed there until RD-NAME-2 was about um,  he was five.
And we moved to  um,  back to Chillum Road, but it was at another apartment uh- uh, location.
I forget the name of it,    but we lived there until um,  RD-NAME-2  um,  was promoted out of the sixth grade.
Um,  and uh,  while- still- uh, go back to RD-SCHOOL-2,   another thing- big thing he did was  started dancing  with uh-  uh, Palmer Park  c- Recreation Center out in-  out here.
And so they had a um-  a  partnership with RD-SCHOOL-2,  and the-  the ladies- young ladies would come and teach the  students uh, tap and jazz and ballet.
And so RD-NAME-2 and two of his  buddies,  RD-NAME-2 and uh,  RD-NAME-2,  they were the only boys in the group.
No, there were a couple other boys but they kind of fell out, so it ended up  just being those three boys  with the girls dancing.
And uh,  they really got good at it.
I mean, they were- they were really good.
And uh,  by them being the only boys in there, they really stood out.
They shined.
And so   uh,  even after RD-NAME-2 um,  promoted out of uh, elementary school,  and he then went to um,  school in Maryland.
Uh,  He kept up the dancing, s- s- You know, stayed with Palmer Park,  and they did- They- I mean they  traveled and won  championships and competitions and  so I was a dance mother.
It was fun, we did a lot of-  going to Myrtle- places like Myrtle Beach, and we went to Disney World and we went to  all  kind of places.
And they w-  Lot of times, they would be the only uh,  African American children th- in the competition.
And they would go and  tear it up and be the winners.
And then little kids would be jealous, but that was cool.
We would- We were proud of them.
They were-  did really good.
And at the same time um,  RD-NAME-2 was called to preach  when he was thirteen.
And um,  that was another exciting time  in our life and uh-    Oh that's- I don't know.
There's a lot of words for that I-  I don't know.
It was-  it was a- it was just um-  It was a d- dynamic ex-  time  you know, because for him, being so young,  I felt like I was called too.
You know, cause I had to-  I had to look out for him.
I had to protect him, you know,  and make sure that-  You know, people would approach him with things.
You know, I would make sure it was  something that was gonna be right for him.
And so  I- You know I-  i- I told God, Well you know,  you- you call him, you call me.
So he's my ministry, you know.
He's doing his ministry, but he's my ministry.
So  that's we made- I made up my mind that  I was gonna stick with him and support him and-  and that's what I did.
And  wherever he went,  I- I never missed anything until I got sick.
You know,  or  started dealing with physical  things.
And um,  he r- he really made me proud.
He really made me proud, loved to hear him speak.
He's a very dynamic,  very strong  very old person.
Like you said, old spirit.
That's- that's RD-NAME-2.
Oh yeah, he's one of fifteen.
One child.
No.
And I d- I was not um-  I had really hard  uh, pregnancy after the-  uh, leading up to it.
You know, before delivery it was fine, but I-  t- after delivery it was  too hard.
Said, no, can't do this again.
Yeah, so.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know my husband is not one  to l-  that likes to go out much.
So  we didn't do a lot of that.
Um, once in awhile,  we'll go out to just- go out to dinner.
Um,  I remember in DC,  there was a-  a Hot Shoppe on Georgia Avenue.
It was-  Uh, was it near- I think it was Decatur Street.
Georgia and Decatur or  Emerson, somewhere up in there.
And that-  that Hot Shoppe- We used to love to go there.
They had good food.
Hot Shoppes.
Mm-hm.
That was a big-  That was a big fa- a popular restaurant  back there, back in the  eighties,  seventies and eighties.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Oh yes.
I was as- I was at um-  Let me see.
That was sixty eight.
That's the year I graduated,  and so the riots was in April.
And so  we were in school.
I will never forget.
We were in school when they um-  when it got word that  Doctor King had been killed,  and uh- and all the breakouts started.
I mean it didn't take no time either.
It just-  and we-  they,  said we- you know, we were gonna go home.
To told the truth.
Call parents I guess, whatever they did to-  for us to leave, and I remember walking down.
I didn't come down Thirteenth Street.
I came down Eleventh Street, the other side of the school.
And  I remember standing there on U Street  looking at  the smoke and the fire and the people running with  boxes and  groceries or whatever they could  run with.
And it was-  it was kind of scary, but it was, wow.
Just awesome  to see that.
It was something I had never seen before.
It was just-  it just-  it blew my mind.
I just couldn't understand why-  At that time I couldn't understand why, but then as  time went on and people talked about  you know,  Doctor King and talked about  you know, why this-  what happened and everything el-,  I started to see or understand a little bit better, but  I just felt  bad because they were tearing up their own s- neighborhoods and  you know.
And so I was scared,  but we made it home.
Got down, um,  came all the way down Eleventh Street,  and then I was home.
And then,  like I said, I lived on Ninth Street-  Ninth and P.
And so, on P Street,  took you over to Seventh Street,  and there was a lot of little stores and businesses along Seventh Street.
And so I could stand on my front stoop,  and see the smoke-  Cause that was another little street they tore up.
You know.
So I could see the smoke up over the trees and see people running.
I c- I remember seeing this man with a box full of liquor.
I said, no, no.
That bothered me.
I don't know why it bothered me, but it did.
Why liquor?
You know, why- why you go to .
That's probably why some of you acting like that, cause of this liquor.
B-  But uh, I remember seeing that- that  um,  blamps.
I s- I saw somebody with some lamps.
It was c- It was creepy.
Mm-mm.
I didn't, no.
I was  thirteen.
That was in sixty three right?
Yeah.
Um,  my mother had not  remarried yet, so  it was just her,  my sister and me.
So  it was like,  go to school, come home,  you know?
She had to know where we were and couldn't- we- we just didn't go and hang out.
So n- um,  no.
I di- I- I  knew about it, but I didn't participate.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
Well going back to when I lived in North- When we first came here, we lived in  Northwest,  which- which was called then Upper North- part of North-  Upper Northwest.
Um, at this- Uptown, y- Okay.
And I could definitely see a differen- It was nicer.
The- the houses were nicer.
Um,  the people,  they were nicer.
I mean, the streets- I mean just a matter of the streets being clean.
That was different.
It was clean there.
It was-  It was okay.
You c- you could walk-  If there was a t- corner store, you could walk there and not  feel like  you were in danger.
And then,  Southeast, or the part of Southeast that we moved to,  it was okay.
I- There was a  p- uh, part off of um-  about to say Minnesota Avenue?
Um, I didn't stay anything- I didn't see a big difference from um-  We live in Northwest to that part of Southeast.
You know, we had the-  and it was a nice quiet neighborhood.
There were children there that I knew,  we used to walk to school with.
Um,  so that part was alwa- South- that part of Southwest, let's see, that's the only time I really-  we were there in Southwest, and it was-  it w- it was kind of disjointed  place to me.
L- Like I say, that maybe this was the house because the house was-  it was-  Everything was like- it was down,  and it was a dark house and  we- that's the one we thought was haunted and- .
And we weren't there that long, so  I- You know, I don't really have much feeling about Southwest  uh, for that.
And South, um-  Northeast.
Uh, when- Linc- We lived in Lincoln Park,  up, right by there-   Excuse me.
I loved that part of town.
We used to walk from there down to H Street, and that was my town.
That was my city.
H Street Northeast, I loved it.
We'd  go to the stores.
I remember um,  McBride's.
We would go there.
I guess that was-  McBride's was like a  KMart now, I guess.
That's what it was like.
And m-  uh, my oldest sister worked at a store,  what's called Copy Cat.
And that was a  store w-  a lady's dress store.
Then get nice clothes at Copy Cat.
And there um-  That was a-  I think there was a Woolworth down there I think.
And then you could go to the little carry outs and get  some good  steak and cheese sandwiches   and fish sandwiches.
So I liked that, and then  before you get to H Street, the- uh, right down Constitution Avenue  and Twelfth Street was a little  Jewish Delicatessen.
Used to  go there and get  good cheese and good  half smokes.
And uh,  my older sister, , they used to send me  and her children  up to that little store  and to  get her RC sodas  and  cheese.
Cheese and crackers- C- Yup.
So we had to go up there and the-  that-  t- I'll never forget the day  that we- I was coming back.
I had her RC in a bag, a paper bag.
And if-  uh- walking down the street-  I used to walk barefoot in the street,  so that tell you something about that part of the city, was- street was  not dirty.
It was on-  no trash and junk all over the street, so-  so I barefoot,  and I was  coming back, I dropped that bottle, slid out of the bag.
And so I didn't know, and I- I- You know I said, oh man, she gonna kill me, blah blah blah.
I kept- I kept walking, never did really  looked down and to see that  glass had popped up on my leg and had cut my leg.
And I- To this day, I have a- like, a  half moon shaped scar on my leg from that   RC soda.
So ,  that's a memoir I kept  from that day .
But she- she was always- she just send me- us up to that store to get that stuff for her,  so.
I liked-  that-  that was my favorite place  that-  to live.
I guess maybe cause  it was my dad was still living, and  you know, I was- so loved him, so uh, he made it  good anyway.
Wherever we were, he made it good.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Yeah, it- it's- it was painful.
It hurt  to see  you know,  a place where-  Like, all the places that you loved to go and- and- and-  and visited and  buy what you wanted to buy and stuff like that.
Then it was gone.
It was trashed and  messed up.
It- it hurt.
It- To me it was- For me, it was painful  to see it go down,  and stay down so long.
Mm-hm.
Just recently, yeah.
Just- Mm.
Just recently.
Mm-huh.
It is.
It is.
Uh,  well I'm- I'm glad that they're  re- getting it- renewing it, and  that it's coming up.
I think um-    I haven't been down there re- real recently, so I'm not sure.
But I- I'm s- I think it's a lot of um,  s-  uh- t- different stores or  I'm not sure exactly what's down there.
I just know they  fixing it up.
But uh- Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Restaurants.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Different world.
Mm-hm.
I see.
Mm-hm.
Okay, yeah cause we- We had talked about d- doing that, and- and especially at U Street because I was more- As- as a older person, I was more familiar with U Street  than I was Seventh-  I mean uh, H.
H was when I was a younger ch- was like, a child really.
Now,  cause when we moved from that area,  I was  ten.
I was eleven.
Yeah, eleven.
So but I- When I went  to H Street, it was with-  usually with my sisters or my mother or whatever  cause we-  we would go to the different stores down there.
But U Street I remember    as in RD-SCHOOL-2 high school, we would go down- we would  sneak out and go to Ben's Chili Bowl and  t- you know.
So  and- and come on down to the Florida Avenue Grill right below um, RD-SCHOOL-3.
And so I-  I remember those places  more than I do s-  H Street.
Mm-hm.
Um,  most of my experience was before the riots  in-  Well all of it r- actually.
And like I say, we would go to t-  Ben's Chili Bowl.
We'd go to the theaters there, the Booker T  and the Lincoln Theatre.
And we'd go there, u- those places.
Um,  uh- uh,  my fath- my stepfather had a friend that had um,  a photography place there called Scurlock.
I don't know if that is- was in your  s-  research?
Sc- He was a black uh,  photographer,  very-  very big I think I've heard,  that  you know, a lot of people used his service so.
I remember going  to that studio to have pictures taken.
I remember um,  uh, the um,  started-  No um-  What's the Mason's  um-  They had a place down there.
I think they still did too.
Uh- Mm-hm.
Masonic Temple, the uh-huh Yeah.
And my stepfather was a  thirty third degree Mason.
And so we went there for their activities and  it was so-  It was mainly the kind of places I remember on from U Street.
Mm, mm, mm.
I do.
I remember that.
That- You m- Do I remember that it didn't get destroyed?
Uh-huh, I do remember that.
I think  maybe- I think a big part of it was the relationship that the-  the owners had built up with the community there.
I think um-  I don't know if things happened- if- if  people came in  that maybe couldn't afford food and was given food.
That may have happened.
I don't know,  but I think that  those um-  Cause it- You know, you could go in there and they knew who you were.
And y- y- I- I think they built up a good relationship with-  t- with the uh, community.
I think that's a big chunk of it.
And they,  provided a good service,  you know.
But some of the other places did too, so why did-  I'm not really sure why they chose not to-  didn't choose to tear that up  too.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well,  definitely   they're not re-  uh,  facelifting  the city  for  people that can't afford it.
I mean, it's- it- To m- It- It seems like to me that they're definitely  steering toward  the high high  high  end,  the highest end, you know.
You got to have- make big buck-  bucks to live  in those condominiums,  and um,  even t- t- looking at the office places and stuff, they just  probably big  paying jobs  in those places, you know.
You gotta have some kind of education.
Y- Degrees nowadays, a high school diploma don't get it.
Well I don't feel like something sliding out.
A high school diploma doesn't get it, so you need degrees to get- you can get the jobs that are in the city down there, I think.
And so  it's- it's unfortunate that we're being  pushed out.
Um,  I say we, but I- I- I feel like it's we.
It's directed toward  low income black people.
And they- they're not building it up for low income black people.
For black people, unless you have a lot of money.
There are a lot of us that do have a lot of money, but  it's ch- it's definitely shifting    t- all the way-  all the way around, it's shifting.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Southeast.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's l- it- it's like it's a takeover.
So it's like,  well you know, to come to Southeast,  cause  uh-  they not building those places up  for us to come-  to- to remain in 'em,  you know?
So it's-  it's-  it's gonna be all- predominantly white  in a matter of years.
And so that's- Oh Lord, yes.
Every day, I pray for him.
I pray for that whole  RD-WORK-3,  the whole  RD-WORK-1.
You know, that God v- could- cause  people today are so-  They a- They don't have any  s- sense of- of humanity.
No um-  No- They don't care about people.
They don't care about themselves  to do the things that they're doing.
I don't think.
And so yes, I worry about him every day  cause he's in the heart of it.
He's  in the heart of it ,  and I- I just pray, Lord, let him-  let something come where he can  at least move away from some- I know he wants to stay in close to his job, bu  I don't know.
So,  but the- the- the violence now,  especially here in the last few  months,  weeks?
And I hate 'em talk- You know, hear 'em on the news, and they talking about  under the violence and what's causing it.
And then someone-  I've heard somebody say,  which,  t- is kind of close to what I feel- that right now,  after all of these um,    police attacks on young black men,  and  that the police are getting  you know,  really getting to see what they're doing,  is coming out.
And so now maybe the police are kind of pulling back and saying,  w- You know, we don't wanna do something that's gonna get us  caught up in anything.
And so we'll just  let them-   It's black on black, let 'em- lot of it is black on black.
Let him kill hisself.
Hey.
And so  by them pulling back, then- then  poor little crazy,  young folk- or not- not just young folk cause the last  few things I've hard standing out uh, about  somebody shooting all- the people went in the theater shooting up some- They were in their fifties, so you can't put it all on young people.
You- And so it says like, people just  giving up.
They don't care.
You know,  if the police gonna pull back, hey, yeah, we gonna go out and do what we wanna do.
That's what I think some people may be thinking.
And so that's-  you know, they-  Something is missing up here anyway, and so now this is just kicking 'em over the edge.
And it's- it's-  it's- it's sad.
It's scary.
It's- it's unfortunate.
And I just hate to see so many of our young folks  caught up in all of this.
Mm.
Shot.
Yeah.
Yes, I know.
Every day.
That's right.
How do they deal with it?
How are they dealing with it?
That sounds so- s- That's their reality.
It's like um, when I saw the video of  the young man being beat on the train, on the subway train.
People say, if I was on that train, you know, what-  what-  what do you do?
That's- that's right.
That's right.
It is.
Well you-  Mm-hm.
An- And that's- That's the word right there,  pray.
We gotta pray like never before.
And the Bible say, pray without ceasing.
And we got to do- We I mean the church  to me-  And then I know the churches- Not all the churches are not- not doing anything.
A lot of them are out there doing what they supposed to be doing.
But I think  i-  they just need- They just need to raise up like,  Cedric woulda done ,  the lion.
Just raise up.
And we're the church, and we-  we not gonna take this anymore.
We, you know,  pray.
I mean, come together.
Put all these denominations  down.
Everybody just that know  a higher-  or know God  come together and pray pray pray.
I mean- That's the only way.
Little bit.
No.
I was into the  uh, Motown stuff.
That's- That was my thing.
Isley Brothers and Teddy Pendergrass and Isaac Hayes, that kind of music.
Oh yeah.
I didn't eat a lot,  but I like it.
To me, it's um-  I think it's a combination of-  It's- it's got some hot sauce in it,  and it's got some ketchup in it.
Something that make it sweet,  you know.
That's my idea of mumbo-  That's how I would make mumbo sauce.
Uh,  n- but it wasn't in DC.
It was a place on-  on um-  What is it, Eastern Avenue?
Right-  Right at Chillum-  Chillum Road.
It was called Hung Far, that was the name of it.
It was a little Chinese carry out.
And when you-  Like, when you going up  Eastern Avenue and you- y- you come across Chillum,  and there's a little shopping place right here.
They're not there anymore, but  they had the best mumbo sauce.
The six piece wings.
With the mumbo sauce.
Fries.
Fries.
I know -  That's right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
I- when I was much younger,  we would go.
My- that's one thing my father loved to do was go down to Smithsonian.
And I remember one Sunday after church us going down to the-  the museum, the big red museum down  on Seventh Street?
He- Yeah.
And I loved going in there.
And we- we have been there several times.
And we  gone to- And I've been to the  Air and Space,  and I've been um-  I've been up the monument stairs.
I walked the monument stairs.
I was sixteen.
I- Oh!
It was- and it was fun because one thing, they-  they kind of stretch out.
Like, they're not tall.
They were  you know, kind of like this.
So you wasn't  climbing so much.
But we did- I don't remember how long it took us to get up there.
It was about- And it was about six of us.
Yup, we walked up those steps.
So that was a fun thing.
And um-  Where else did I used to go?
Those were the main places I went.
The library?
No.
Oh, no, the- Mm-hm.
No I haven't been down there yet.
I know l- I've heard, and I've seen pictures.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
I bet it's awesome.
Yes.
Mm.
Mm.
Probably had the lights set up.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I know.
Mm.
Yes.
Yes.
That's right.
That's right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And that's what monuments are supposed to do.
They supposed to  Mm-hm.
That's right.
That's right.
Yeah.
Mm.
I haven't been since um,  they've redone it.
Um,  actually, I haven't been since I left the area,  since I left the school there.
Um,  mm-mm.
I haven't been back.
So I don't know- I- I don't want-  know what it looks like.
I just remember that  the old Eastern Market was s- was wonderful.
It was a wonderful place to just go, walk around.
You could get those big fat  juicy fresh donuts.
And then-  and then like I say, the big barrel had the  f- um,  Utz potato chips and you'd get a white paper bag filled with p- p- potato chips.
And uh-  and the flowers and the different things.
Yeah, I l- I loved it then.
So I haven't been back.
Mm-mm.
Mm.
uh , I would- I'm gonna say- I don't know.
Cause life-    life has so much to offer,  so much to give you.
You know?
And you can't shut your mind off,  to me, to anything.
You should-  You got to always keep a open mind,  and ask God to give you-  to touch your heart,  your spirit.
Have to have this open  to  pe-  other people and-  and other th- ideas and other things, you know.
And a-  And always,  you know, I- Like I ask God to open-  Let me see  through my spirit, through my heart.
Let me see  like you see.
You know,  people.
And so that I will have a love for life and a love for  people.
And I don't-  So you don't wanna hurt people.
You wouldn't wanna hurt anybody.
So  I guess it's s- it's all about love,  and that's what the world need.
We got to get back to loving each other  and respecting each other  and looking at people like,  you know-  Put yourself in their place.
Would-  Would I wanna deal with this?
Would I wanna  receive this from somebody?
So why am I gonna give that to somebody?
If I don't wanna get bashed in the head, why am I gonna bash somebody in the head?
You know?
We got-  Try to love people.
That's what I would-  That's my advice.
Try to  open your spirit up  and your heart up  t-  t-  to other people and to life.
And give  so that you can get back-  and g-  get back what you give.
Uh-huh.
We don't.
That's right.