My birthday's April nineteenth.
Washington, DC.
Um,  well it's kind of-  I'm moving right now so I don't really claim a neighborhood.
But if I- Before I lived on East Capitol, right now I'm living with my grandma on Suitland, Maryland.
In- in Suitland, Maryland.
I'm moving to, um, Clinton, MD.
I go to RD-SCHOOL-3 but I'm on the middle school side so I'm on the RD-SCHOOL-5 side.
K- yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-1.
No, I'm going  to RD-SCHOOL-5.
Um,  my dad was born in Massachusetts, but he wasn't there very long.
And my mom was born here in DC.
My mom works in like-  like, uh, managing money for people that own different houses and stuff and my dad's an electrician.
My mom works in RD-WORK-5  headquarters.
Well, I lived in a-  an apartment.
I didn't live in, um, East Capitol all my life, I moved there when I was in first grade.
So before that I lived on RD-ADDRESS-4.
And I've been there since I was little, my grandma lived there, my other grandma lived there.
And we had like, family members that lived there.
And then I end up moving.
And- but I've been going to RD-SCHOOL-1 all my life.
So,  when I moved to East Capitol,  uh,  mm, you know, I had to wait for a bunch of stuff when I first got there, had to set up my room.
I was actually sleeping in a sleeping bag until I got my bed.
And it had like this little small TV.
But  it was still  my room.
We ain't have-  well, in my room we ain't have cable so I used to watch a bunch of DVDs.
And I played them every time, and I end up liking them  so like I like know all the words and stuff.
And that was basically it, and when we got cable,  we end up getting a bigger TV in the living room,  and a bunch of like,  different stuff.
I got a different dresser, I got-  my room ended up getting filled with clothes and stuff.
But the thing is I seem to not use my closet at all.
I don't know why.
Um,  then I ended up m-  I didn't go outside around there at first, cause, you know, it was like  I'm still little.
So,  I didn't start going outside really until I was like, third grade probably.
And then I only- I ain't went out- I didn't go outside that much then.
So,  my brothers used to come over every other weekend,  though other days they're with their mom, so every other weekend they come over with my dad and my mom and me.
And those weekends was probably more of the weekends when I went outside.
Like, me and my brother  and  some fellow students from the club like  RD-NAME-3  and  RD-NAME-3, RD-NAME-4, those three siblings, and then RD-NAME-3, Miss RD-NAME-3 son.
Bunch of them live other there and we would all be outside together playing and stuff.
It was f- it was fun.
We'd  like, we run around, we play tag, sometimes we walked  to the store.
Sometimes we stay out there til like, ten o'clock and then I get annoyed.
And like,  w- well, we- most of the time we-  during the summer we're probably like, hanging around the pool.
And that's  basically- Oh, we rode our bikes,  and I ended up learning how to ride a bike  when RD-NAME-3 taught me.
And my brother, it was RD-NAME-3 and my brother.
Every time I fell, he'd pick me back up and made me try again.
That's basically what we did.
Of my brothers and sisters?
Yes.
No, of the group of my friends?
Um,  am I?
No,  RD-NAME-1-  RD-NAME-3 was n-  no, it was like two more other people that were younger than me.
Well,  it was- I was always safe  in my way.
But around the neighborhood,  not so much.
Lot of acc-  not a- like a lot a lot, like it wasn't daily, but there were accidents, there were gunshots sometimes, but.
I was- I was always safe.
Like,  uh, if my mom heard anything she'd always make us huddle together.
It was one night,  when my mother heard it and my dad.
And my mother was like, RD-NAME-2 no we have to get all of them.
And we were huddled I think in my room, w- no, we was huddled like right there in the middle  of the hallway, we were like huddled together for at least five minutes.
And then my dad was like, it's okay everything's over.
And we were-  we were okay.
It was like me and my brother, my sister, my mom, and my dad.
But, um,  it was fun.
My funnest memories from living over there was  the days we had sn- got snowed in.
Cause my brother was over there, my aunt, my cousin, my mom, my dad.
s- fortunately my sister wasn't there but it was still fun because  everybody that was around the neighborhood  went to play in the snow and all my friends were outside, we was throwing snowballs,  we was knocking on each other door tryna get each other to come out.
That had to be like the funnest moment of living over there.
Probably like  all of the-  all of the  gunshots and stuff that happen around there.
All of the guys that would always stand outside  on the corner doing things they're not supposed to, all the gunshots, all the accidents.
Stu- stuff like that, stuff that was more-  that was dangerous for the kids to hang outside.
No.
They were there.
And I knew it but like nothing really-  It wasn't even more where I lived at cause I lived on the top.
It's like, down there where- Cause it's like a top thing take steps to go down there, that's where everything happened, that's why I wasn't-  That's probably why it wasn't so affective to me.
But yeah.
Um, I- to me, I don't know cause I haven't been around there.
But I do know they're rebuilding everything.
They've redone apartments and bunch of thing.
They're redoing the pool so hopefully,  you know,  things will change.
Um,  mm,  I don't-  I don't really know, I don't.
I don't think so, things are kind of staying the same.
To me, mo-  people are getting more influenced by  bad  things to me sometimes.
But other than that it's still the same, I really never thought about it that way.
Um,  we just been there for a long time, and then my parents been wanting a house because,  you know, kids need more space and everything.
And- and my-  my father want it, my mom wanted it, I wanted it.
It wasn't a particular reason.
But we wanted the house, so  we're moving to the house.
Yeah it's like five bedrooms, there's  um, a bathroom in- a full bathroom in the basement,  and  it's like, a big bedroom in the basement and then two other rooms, they're- they're normal size.
And then it's like, the master room upstairs and two other-  and then one more room upstairs.
And if I don't take the room upstairs I'll get the bigger one in the basement with my own bathroom.
That's what I'm debating about whether I wanna be upstairs or downstairs.
But  if I do go downstairs, that room will be the guest room, th- their room.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
haven't been around there.
Yeah.
Oh wait.
Excuse me, it's two rooms upstairs and three rooms in the basement.
Yeah it's t- it's a five bedroom, three rooms in the basement, two upstairs.
The- No m- no more scary movies though.
Yeah, I really don't, but.
But it would be- it'd- the basement will be more family like,  home-y to me.
Cause-  anyway, my father's gonna make the basement like his little man cave, so.
It'll be- it'll be very home-y, like it'll be like people down there but it- like  you won't know.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
Yeah they'll have a room downstairs.
Okay so,  no.
N- n-  There's always a story about school for every kid to me, but.
I- it's not I don't like school.
I like school, I'm very good at everything in school,  it's just  kids are annoying sometimes and then the teachers they don't understand from a kid's  perspective of different  things.
So like, they're always yelling at you and it gets so annoying.
You're like,  oh my god,  I don't like you, get out of my face.
And, you know, kids be disrespectful to the teachers.
Most of the time I'll just tell them, okay, okay, okay.
I get it, I'm sorry, I won't do it again.
Like I just try to- I try to even with them cause at the end of the day I'm not gonna win the fight obviously.
Cause it seems like they just have to be right since they're the teachers.
But it's those little times  when they're wrong, and they figure that out.
Then they come and apologize to you and it makes you feel so much better.
But like,  besides  teachers  and  the kids at school,  I like school cause I'm good at it.
And it's like,  I like math, I like numbers.
I just  kind of don't like how you have to  do it in like school, how they teach you how to do it.
I just like doing the numbers by myself.
And then in like,  social studies and science,  history and science, I-  I don't-  I'm good at both,  it's just the kids that  talk all the time and distract you, then you can't do your work.
And then you end up  not doing great.
So I try to always-  mm, sorry.
I try to always move myself in social studies, I-  um, excuse me, I gave myself a independent seat,  And I've been doing good at social studies.
And then in science,  those old little times when you get chatty.
And I have done that, I have gotten chatty, I gotten chatty today.
And that was my fault, but I end up getting back on task, I always get back on task.
And I always end up doing my work, it's just still those kids around are always  wanna talk and everything.
It's h- it's hard.
But I always like do it.
Those just those two classes most of the time.
Most of the time everybody else is good.
Do I have a favorite teacher?
Uh, favorite teachers would have to be  Miss- no I do have a favorite teacher this year, his name is Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
And, you know, everybody got press when they heard his name cause RD-NAME-2, you know, everybody-  But yeah, that's my favorite teacher this year.
Last year,  my favorite teacher would have to be-  not last year but like, back.
My favorite teachers would have to be  Miss RD-NAME-4,  and Miss RD-NAME-3.
Those are from like,  pre-K  and kindergarten.
Okay.
Me too.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2 my favorite cause  he understands where your point comes from, like he ac- he will actually not debate with you, he will actually try and understand you.
So,  Mr.
RD-NAME-2 he  he tal- he like, talks to you, he will-  he'll te- he wants you to tell him  what's wrong and how you feel like you could fix it and then he'll tell you  what he actually thinks on the situation and then how he'll try to fix it.
And he's a good teacher like, just-  just show your teacher respect  and they'll-  they'll help you out, too.
We all be even with each other.
It'll be a nice game of tennis  kind of, like.
And then Miss RD-NAME-3,  she was always a good pre-K teacher.
Like if I was sad she would always  find a way to fix it.
She was so nice.
I don't know.
I- I really liked pre-K.
and I- it's probably because  I got to nap, so it was more nice.
And Miss RD-NAME-4 she was always fun like,  she makes learning fun.
Same thing with Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
She was a nice fun teacher  who always cared and you know,  she always made sure I was okay, like.
Those were just like my favorite teachers.
I always got along well with them, I never tried to de-  bate with them or nothing.
But Mr.
RD-NAME-2 he makes learning real fun like I just-  sometimes I wish I could just skip  to his seventh and eighth grade social studies classes  so I could be in there, cause I know he probably be dressing up  and really  bringing this thing to life with his students, cause it like he do like-  Today,  in social studies, we got to play a game,  about- to learn about  Egyptian  stuff.
So it's like it's more fun.
We learned like how to buil- like how the mummies are built.
Like,  how you w-  would take out they brain  through some type of needle through the nose and take out they brain and then like dump it out and all  whatever, then like you wipe some stuff on them and wrap them with-  I don't know how to say the name I think it's spelled like,  L-I-N-E-N.
Yeah that and you wrap 'em with them like a fabric or something.
We learned how to like, wrap the mummy and stuff.
And like the pyramids.
We been learning about like,  the pyramids, the mummies live then and  how-  how everything was settled, like how you were-  your ranking  of what you were back then like,  if you came from a rich family,  or-  uh, or  the daughter or son of a god,  you were ranked higher.
And then even a person that's on a farm  could do whatever they can to get ranked higher so you could always move up.
Everybody can move up, yes, because  my parents are trying to m- move up.
And-  they're- and they're really doing it.
My dad  has been-  um, he worked with RD-WORK-2, he's been  in electricity for a long time, he even takes school work for electricity.
And he graduates  in like, three more years,  counting this year.
And so-  and then he is a business manager for my uncle and my cousin  who rap.
And then my mom  does this thing called It  Works, where she's a distributor  and  you get money for all the customers under you that pay for their things, so.
They have to keep moving up cause you always do,  but I do feel like we're middle class cause I do have  a lot of things  different kids don't.
Like especially in Middle Eastern parts of the world.
Th- in  the case of this like, district and everything,  they'd be consider  third class  due to not everything that they have.
And I do feel like I have a lot of  things,  and I'm very grateful and it's like,  I do have-  we do have a lot of money and everything, you know.
We are ve- we are wealthy.
But we're not like, the wealthiest.
But we're wealthy so I feel like we're like, middle class.
Cause we're not-  we're not third class, cause  third class is some kids that don't get every privilege  kids here do.
Thank you.
Thank you.
No,  because  different jobs depend on like-  I- n- no, I don't believe it because  you get your job on- based on what you can do and your talents and you  not cause of your wealth.
But if it's a case scenario where people only pick you because of your wealth,  then I guess it counts then.
But most of the time I just feel like  your jo- the job you get or the things you get to do  is based on you and how you act and  what you do, not your money.
Cause money wasn't always the case.
I don't-  I feel like race shouldn't matters but some people-  judgmental people and harsh people  do.
But  but most of the time it- most of the time it doesn't.
But in some categories it does with different things.
And I feel like it shouldn't be but, you know, you can't-  RD-NAME-2 I mean,  not really but kind of.
I could-  I could throw a football real good.
And then the boys was like, oh a girl was throwing the football?
I was like-  and then I was kind of looking like  a girl's throwing- a girl's throwing a football, me, I'm that girl.
And  it wasn't- I knew that he really wasn't trying to say nothing to it but it's still like, a girl can do anything a boy can do.
But other than that not really.
I mean,  no.
I  like to act.
And  I've tried out for acting  before.
And I got it  I got the- I- when I went to the thing I got the call back to come again the next day,  but that day was my sister's birthday so I never went back.
And I like to act.
I could be a lawyer and I feel like I could be a doctor,  but  even though I could be all those things I'd rather be like, a businesswoman like I don't have to go to work I own a business.
Like my mom's trying to do, she has her own clothing line, too.
So I d- I'd rather be that  or  an actress.
Entrepreneur.
I'm just really good of it- really good at it.
Everybody always telling me like,  I'm really good at crying on scene when you aks.
About to start crying now, don't  know why.
But like I'm really good  on crying on scene and stuff.
I'm really good at acting and  I've al- And I have said I wanted to be a lawyer but I realized that's what everybody said like I really  wanted to be different.
And then I had to think about it and I've been thinking about it.
I really-  acting is really something I  do instead.
And then being a businesswoman, I don't like listening to other people.
I don't like having to do what other people say.
Cause I'm like, who does- who wants to come and work then be bossed by somebody?
Bossed around and have to do a ton of work.
Of course as a businesswoman you're gonna have to do a ton of work,  but it's your business.
It's how I feel-  that's how I feel on different things.
But like, a lawyer and a doctor, those are cool too.
I've always thought about those  too,  in case everything I else-  else-  everything else I wanted to do didn't work out.
Uh,  I don't-  I actually don't know.
It's just because like,  every time you go to school you got all the flags of, all the schools every teacher who done went to, and you think about how the teacher is such a great teacher and stuff.
You're like, I don't know which school I should be going to.
So I- I d-  I don't really try to think about it too much cause it like kind of overwhelms- overwhelms me.
But I don't- I really don't know which college.
Mm.
Not everything.
Can't be perfect all the time.
Not perfect.
I consider right.
Consider being right most- sometimes.
But I don't think of it all the times.
Like I remember  when in school,  every-  uh, a girl was- said she didn't like me because  she said I think I'm so perfect cause I answer all the questions.
Cause I be raising my hand to answer questions in class and I get good grades.
I don't think I'm perfect at all.
Cause I have made mistakes.
It's just I try to be right cause I don't like  being wrong.
I don't like feeling like I've done did something wrong, so.
I always try  to be right and I ha-  and  I do forget to think about it sometimes before I say it  but,  you know.
Almost every time.
I do think I'm a good friend.
I'm very-  very loyal, very trustworthy.
There be some times when I can be big out my mouth  but other than that, I can keep a secret.
Like,  if you're showing me that I'm really being-  that you really don't trust me with something I'm really gonna fix it, cause you supposed to be friends, we should be able to trust each other.
And  that has happened, and people-  and my friend had felt like she really couldn't trust me with something,  but I kept my mouth shut.
And I've kept my mouth shut the whole time.
She's told people instead of me telling them.
And I really wanna work on that.
Cause I'm- I've- I'm really a great friend.
I- I know I could look mean,  and I could act mean sometimes.
It's just cause  you have to have that vibe, especially at school.
Cause kids  are very  like, mean.
Like they'll  wear on you.
Like if you're very nice and smart they'll try-  they'll think you're weak.
And that has happened to me, people thought I was weak.
But then when I showed them  that  you can't just  feel some type of way about me like you can't just  act this s- some way towards me.
They ended up not liking it and they didn't wanna talk to me.
But they ended up apologizing  and say that they were wrong for what they done.
And other than that I know  a friend had told me  uh, she felt like I was being fake towards her.
So we- but we talked it out cause  I wanted to talk it out cause that's a friend from a long time.
And I wanted to make sure we were cool cause we-  no f-    um, friend relationship should be ended  over something the other person doing.
Like I always aks my friends  what do you think I do wrong in our friendship so I could fix it.
Cause I wanna keep a friendship that I know is actually a friendship.
I do value friendship because  you  can't always have a lot of friends cause you never know who's really your friend.
And that has happened to me, I thought a bunch of- I thought a bunch of girls my friend.
My parents,  everybody in my family would tell-  Everybody's not your friend.
Cause you be naming this person, that person.
All them are not your friends.
And I'm like, yes they are.
And then,  it end up happening when y- I- it was a time where I lost friends one  by one.
Then gained 'em, then lost them again.
And-  and once I gained  all the friends I knew were friends  I knew I had gained all the friends that I knew were friends because they ended up coming back cause they wanted to try and fight again for the friendship.
And now  I d- the girls that I found out weren't my friends  I st-  I talk to them,  but it's not like we're like,  you know.
It's-  we- like, I'll talk to them, like I even sit by one of 'em.
And we- we play around and everything.
But it's not a point where I would be like, what it-  when my- with my friend RD-NAME-3,  I know I could trust her with everything, I could really  pour into her.
But the other f-  but RD-NAME-3,  I say we're- I say we're cool, we hashed it out.
We could talk, we communicate,  we could be cordial,  but like a s- a deep secret that's like haunting me or something, I wouldn't tell it to her probably.
Just cause I gotta make sure I know I could trust her bef- again before  I could do that.
The  best memory I have with my friends were when we went to the little camp thing at the end of the year last year for- um,   for, uh, what's it called?
For, um, the little, uh, trip, the, uh, end of the year trip and we spent the night at a camp.
And it was a cabin full of girls.
And you c- all these girls I was cool- I was cool with.
And we were-  we had so much fun.
We told scary stories that night, we bonded,  everything.
We was- we was sharing- we sharing the blowdryer, making sure everybody had toothpaste,  make sure everybody was good.
And-  It was fun.
And even the girl RD-NAME-3 we- she was in the cabin with me.
And we-  and we were cool.
But that as before the little incident.
But now me and RD-NAME-3 are-  when me and RD-NAME-3 are cool we talk, we play around with each other,  and we're- we're very cordial.
It's like,  you would think we're best friends, so.
When I lost friends that were actually the ones that were real to me,  which was  RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2,  and RD-NAME-2.
Like,  c- cause I was with RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2  and RD-NAME-3 ain't really wanna be my friends cause they thought I would b- I was betraying them.
And then me and RD-NAME-3 had arguments.
And RD-NAME-3 was my best friend.
So,  after that,  I really apologized when- once RD-NAME-2 actually explained to me everything, w- how they feel and everything,  we hashed it out, and me and RD-NAME-3 are best friends and we-  we always playing around, we got all of the same classes  in school.
So I'm always with her twenty-  oh well not twenty-four seven, but, you know, all day at school.
And, um,  when I lost RD-NAME-2 I had to make sure I had fixed that out cause RD-NAME-2 was the friend that always tell me what I was doing wrong.
Mm-hm.
Yeah I- I tell her stuff but like,  you-  sometimes certain people don't like to hear certain things cause they can't handle it all the time, so.
But  yeah I do check her sometimes.
RD-NAME-3 was talking about me but she told me it was another girl that was talking about me when it was both of them.
And then things blew out of proportion, but.
I fixed it.
I don't like nobody.
Uh,  it was-  What was his name?
I don't-  I don't think I've ever had a boyfriend.
It was a boy I liked.
I thought he was funny and cool but he ended up being obnoxious and annoying.
Last year.
Mm.
No like, twenty sixteen.
Mm.
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Um, RD-NAME-4 and RD-NAME-4 told me and they were like, you should totally come here, we be having so much fun.
So I tell my mom about it and  at that time we had a incident with the car so we were already catching the bus and stuff.
So,  she said yeah that she does get off of work later so she always needed somebody to pick me up anyways.
So sh- I ended up coming in to the Boys and Girls Club in first grade.
But the funny thing was on my first day,  I got ice cream.
I don't know they were having some event with Mr.
RD-NAME-1 in his room.
And they were giving out ice cream.
I don't know how I got in line but.
Hm.
Um,  Smart Girls was always fun.
But  I don't really think-  I mean, like all the times are good so I don't really think I have a  best memory.
Well Smart Girls was the program that started in third grade where  basically you learned about your body and like different things.
And then you got badges, and we took tests on how  to be like, a good friend and manners and everything.
So,  that- that was basically  it.
And we- and we always learned stuff, you like learned how to be a proper young lady.
Ooh.
Um,  hm.
It was-  I-  all the sessions where we had Miss RD-NAME-3 as the Smart Girls person were the fun ones.
Um, those were always the fun ones cause she always had a different actidid- tivity.
Like we popped balloons and got questions  that you had to answer.
Uh, like we were learning how to-  we were learning about friendship and like,  people influences  and stuff.
And  I think my question- well  somebody's question was do you go to church or something,  so.
Everybody started naming the church they go to.
Uh, it's not a church it's like a congregation but it's-  it's not more like a church it's like-  it's a  kingdom hall.
Um,  it was like the JW kingdom hall.
I don't know where it's at, but.
It's- Uh, I go there  like  if I'm not doing nothing on a Sunday, like if my mom's not having work and I'm like her- gotta be her little assistant.
I'll probably go most of the time.
Miss RD-NAME-3 is my dad here?
Okay.
There,  we-  I s- most of the time I sit in the library which is like the little box.
And then you got like all the seats where everything really happens and then  in the- um,  in the little school,  we call it school slash library.
And when you sit in there,  you could see everything through like a glass and they got the speakers in there and- um,  and when my aunt and I go,  we'll sit back there most of the time cause my aunt has her baby.
And then it's just so much better cause you can move more and everything.
It's not like you're sitting with everybody distracting everybody every time you walk out.
Yeah so like, ev- the weekends my dad gets me and my brother and my sister,  we go to my- his side of the family.
And then,  like,  every day everybody stops by my grandma's house, so my-  my aunts will stop by, they might drop they sons off there for a hour while she goes Ubering or something.
Yeah that's not her main job though.
She does it for extra, yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  we don't-  Okay so traditions in my father's side,  are that  we go to Mass in  for, uh, Thanksgiving.
And,  on my, uh,    on my grandma's side,  we- we don't- I don't-  our tradition is probably going to my grandmother's house  or  like,  meeting up with each other somewhere.
Well we're always with each other so it's like not- we don't- I don't f- I feel like we don't really have a tradition tradition,  but, you know.
We'll always try to go somewhere with each other.
and stuff   My mom and my dad travel a lot.
I've been to New York City.
Didn't know,  but I've been  when I was a baby.
Um, I've traveled to New York,  Florida.
I'll go- I've gone to Florida for a birthday,  my birthday,  um, a wedding.
And then I think we went to Florida for just like, fun.
And then,  I went to Cozumel, Mexico  for a birthday we took on a cruise.
Yeah but when we was going there I had-  we took the plane, we had to travel through like,  Memphis, Tennessee,  and Indianapolis.
And Memphis-  Memphis was like- um,  no, Tennessee, I'm sorry.
Tennessee was going there and Indianapolis was coming back.
I mean, I wanna go everywhere but I don't have- I don't have a specific  place.
Yeah.
I don't wanna have to choose a specific one, just  wanna go.
Yeah.
Like, hip-hop.
Hip-hop and R and B.
My favorite group?
Um,  I like Chris Brown, Beyonce, Bruno Mars.
Not that he comes up with a lot of ch- songs, but I used to like Trey Songz, I still listen to some of his songs.
Um,  I like    It's a lot of people so I'm not gonna name all of 'em.
But it's a bunch of like,  famous people that everybody would know.
Yeah.
Main people.
I like they songs.
I listen to it,  kind of forced.
I mean, it's cool cause of like some of the songs cause my dad used to be in a band where they played go go music.
And I like the beats that they'll be  to like,  da da da da da da da da da, da da da, like the beats and everything.
I mean, I guess it's cool.
I mean, it's- it's cool, I like it, like I'll listen to it.
But it's not something like you'll listen to on a regular basis, probably on a  Friday, like they say on the radio.
Yes.
No.
Chinese food.
With Chinese food.
Like the wings.
Yeah.
Chinese food?
No, just when I go to Chinese  place.
I mean they sell it in stores.
And my aunt bought it one time for like, fried- the fried chicken we had.
And it was good but like,  I'm not  picky about it, I d-  e- when I eat Chinese food I'll get mumbo sauce from there.