February third,  nineteen sixty Washington DC.
Benning Heights.
For twenty years.
Sh.
Uh, I currently reside in Clinton, Maryland.
I've lived in Gaithersburg,  Maryland.
I've lived in Forestville, Maryland.
No, I did not.
No.
I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 High School,  and then I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 University.
RD-SCHOOL-2 campus.
I am a  contract administrator.
Uh, my mother was born Claremore,  Oklahoma,  and my father was born in  Bartlesville, Oklahoma.
My mother was a ma- uh, records management specialist  for the federal government,  GS thirteen.
And my father was an accountant  for the Department of Navy.
Believe he was GS  eight  or nine.
And he retired.
Sh.
I am the  youngest of two.
I have one sibling, a sister.
Um,  growing up,  in a two parent  home- household,  um, my perspective was that I felt  we had the best of everything.
Um,  my father made it  um,  his business to make sure  that we were very well taken care of.
Um,  looking back,  we had all the necessities.
My mom was the homemaker.
She worked, but she was  still the primary homemaker, and my father was  the dominant  with the  um-  He made sure that  the house ran smoothly.
Growing up in the neighborhood that we grew up in,  I was  the only  um,  f-  female  of my age,  so I didn't have a lot of  uh, female friends or anything like that.
There are twelve years between us.
There are twelve years.
So I grew up with the  as a tomboy growing up.
So I grew up with the boys in the neighborhood and  playing football and  baseball and kickball and  ride my ten speed bicycle where  other girls were still in the house, and they were tryna learn how to cook and  you know, uh-  playing with dolls.
I did play with dolls, but I was truly a tomboy.
Let's see.
What else can I say?
Um-   T.
It was a  um-  I think they c- Well,  today's  terminology would be a  townhouse.
But- Cause you have one person besides a single,  a semi detached home is what it- really what it was considered.
Uh the neighborhood was very  um,  old school structured,  where everybody looked out for everyone.
Uh, if- if you got in trouble down the street,  by the time you got home, your parents knew  exactly what you did.
You were only allowed to go  from one corner to the other.
You couldn't just roam the neighborhood.
That just was not allowed.
It was a all black neighborhood.
Um,    and  the family structures were pretty much the same.
It was mai- mostly two parent.
Um,  I don't recall any  divorcees at all.
In the community.
Not- not growing up.
Not at all.
I didn't even really fully understand what that was.
Cause we didn't- You did- You just didn't-  You didn't have that.
Um, it's j-  From the perspective of when I grew up, as- especially in elementary school,  my day care provider as their called now, but my baby sitter  lived maybe seven doors down the street on the same block.
Um,  elementary school that I attended,  we walked to school, didn't do any bussing anything like that.
RD-NAME-2 Elementary School on RD-ADDRESS-5, Southeast.
So you had a buddy kind of thing where  you had your little friends that you would walk to school with, and you'd wait  and walk home together.
Um, I was a crossing guard,  so I got a chance to see all the little kids going home.
Um,  very quiet neighborhood,  very family structured, very or-  family oriented.
Um,  everyone pretty much went in the house when the lights came on.
Or you went in for dinner,  cause your-  your- your parent would come out and stand at the door and yell your name all up and down the street.
And you came in for dinner, everyone sat down,  and that-  that's pretty much how-  You sat down as a family,  and then if you were l- if it wasn't dark, you got to come back outside and when the street lights came on,  you came in the house.
No.
Um,  we joke about it now, but  she loved me, yes.
I was in the way up until  probably when I became about fifteen or sixteen and then she allowed me to  come into my own.
Because anything other than that,  I was-  If she was trying to date or if she was trying to go out  I was in the way cause she had to take me with her.
Um,  she was responsible for making sure that  I got dressed for school and  that I  had breakfast.
And she served the same thing every day  of the week.
Yeah.
Certain foods I don't eat now because of her.
But um-  S-  her uh scrapple,  I can't-  I can't just-  I can't stand to look at it at this point.
Um, I did learn to eat  grits,  f- but she fixed  scrapple, eggs  and grits  every day.
It's all she knew how to cook.
So that's what I ate every day.
But we became close um,  as I got older.
Um,  cause I will say  this.
Uh,  I was her-  You know being her little sister,  and I've always grown up being  RD-NAME-3's little sister,  um, that's a label  or a title while-  I think by the time I was  twenty five,  close to thirty,  I outgrew  finally.
And then I became my own person.
Very-  And there's still- Some people said,  Oh that's RD-NAME-3's little sister.
It's like, okay, I'm fifty something years old now.
I'm not RD-NAME-3's little anything cause I am bigger than she is!
Yeah.
But  we did have a- We had a very good relationship  because uh, we were  dancers.
So my parents  uh, sent us to dancer school,  and I was a ballet dancer.
And  once I started studying  a little more and going to  different  genres and doing uh, modern dance and things like that,  she was also dancing at the time, so  that started our bond I think.
And it just really kind of developed  from that.
At this point right now, we live approximately  door to door seven minutes from each other,  and we have  lived like that for the last twenty five years.
Right now.
Mm-hm.
Hm-hm.
Um, we have a very small family,  very, very small family.
Um, just to give you a little background, my parents got married in nineteen forty two,  and my dad was in the military, and they moved  here  to Washington, DC area.
And  therefore he-  they- He moved us away from the rest of the family.
So we don't have cousins, aunts and uncles and things like that  in the area.
We  never have up until maybe-  We found out about four years ago we have a cousin,  a blood cousin here.
But other than that, we've never had a large family so  it was always just Mom and Dad,  RD-NAME-3 and- and- and RD-NAME-2  and- until we  developed our own  families.
Um,  right now traditionally, we do  Christmas,  Thanksgiving,  the first summer  cookout,  the end of the summer  cookout,  and we see each other,  prob-  Well because my mom now,  um, she's a surviving  um, parent,  and we all  pitch in to telp take care of her  so we see each other a lot more now.
We see each other probably  on a weekly basis.
As far as the family all getting together,  we try to make it a point to  see each other at least  once a month?
Um, that works-  depending on what the schedules  you know, provide- you know, allow us to do that.
We work.
I have one child.
And I have a thirty  four year old daughter, um,  who I  put through college.
And  um, she went to grad school.
She came back home.
And she's back home with me now.
And she has uh-  She was  afforded the opportunity  to adopt, and so she- we're in the process of now- She's adopting a baby boy.
Well he's  sixteen months old right now,  but we've had him since he was three days old.
So- Uh, my heart.
Mm,  absolute heart.
It was a blessing.
It was a God's blessing.
Truly, it was.
T- Because she doesn't have any- She doesn't have any biological children.
She's not in a relationship.
So she didn't feel that-  that should keep her from being a mom cause she's always wanted to be a mom.
So instead of just waiting for nature to take its course,  she took matters in-  Or like I said, the opportunity came up with a friend of hers,  um, has a relative that  had a child that they could not provide for.
So um,  we're in the,  like I said the-  the last phase of the adoption process.
Yes, tha- thank you.
Oh, yes.
Mm-hm.
Elementary school is somewhat of a blur at this point.
I did-  I can remember  one particular teacher,  uh, Miss RD-NAME-1, that was my fifth grade teacher,  I think she made the m-  most impact on my life.
Um, she was a no nonsense  proper,  as you will,  type of person.
She didn't take any  mess from any child,  but she was fair.
And she always tried to get you to aspire to be better.
Um,  and one of the r- things I really remember about that  being in fifth grade was  there was a-  a young  gentleman  or  kid  came into fifth grade,  and he moved fere from  uh, Jamaica.
He had never seen it snow before,  and for whatever reason, it sticks in my mind.
And we all had to go stand out in the snow for  a whole class period because  he had never seen a snowfall in the sky.
So the rest of us are sitting there freezing, and he's just walking around amazed that he saw snow.
But that was the kind of thing that she was trying to help understand.
If he didn't  have any  understanding of what snow really was, and to- to help him experience that  she just made us kind of  all  realize that there are different cultures.
There are different  um, things that kids go through  and that we needed to embrace that  with him  and share that with him.
And I'll always remember that.
Not quite sure why, but  I've always remembered that.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4  Junior High School on Forty Ninth Street.
Um,  what's there now is the new RD-SCHOOL-4.
They tore the building down and re-  rebuilt it.
Um,  I was  um, there when  the principal name was uh, RD-NAME-2.
And I think  that was the very beginning  of  a change for me because  he structured the school-  In his mind it was a university.
So he- he  gave you the opportunity one,  that you had an opinion, didn't mean that you always gonna get your way,  but that he  pushed us  to think  beyond.
Don't just-  just because- No.
You need to understand why- why you have these feelings.
And I will always remember  Mister RD-NAME-2 for that.
Um,  but it was also during a time where  you couldn't leave campus.
You couldn't come out and go to lunch, anything like that.
You ate  in the  cafeteria or you brought your own lunch.
You weren't allowed  off of the campus at any time.
You know, truancy was really really big then  so  they  kind of  had  real good control  over what you did,  I enjoyed going in- um, junior high school.
I was a cheerleader.
Um,  I actually made captain  uh, think it was my eighth grade year.
Because it- back that  time,  you know, you had seventh, eighth, and ninth grade.
So I was a captain seventh grade- eighth grade.
Excuse me.
And then I was a captain ninth grade.
I was also on the dance-  dance team  for the school.
I was still taking private lessons, and actually at- by-  Uh, not until I got into high school did I start dancing professionally.
And professionally meaning, we had a-  a little dance group, and we would perform at different  location- diff- different  events and things like that.
Um,  junior high school was really good.
It was the first time I got a chance to travel out-  for,  you know, ninth grade you got to go to  um, Florida.
We went to Disney World, and we went to  um, Atlanta,  and the whole Peachtree Street.
You know, and Martin Luther King and that  whole thing, so  that was- that was good because other schools at that time were not traveling.
But  Mister RD-NAME-2 made sure that we were able to experience different things,  and-  and we were the- kind of the trail blazers for that for other schools.
And then I left there and went to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, which  um,  RD-SCHOOL-2 was-    I enjoyed my time at RD-SCHOOL-2.
I truly developed and became into- came into my own.
Um,  by that time,  I was-  I was dancing  on a level-  I had  studied in New York,  um   for just a brief time.
I-  The dancer school that I belonged to,  they would take a group of kids to New York to study,  and so I was- I was selected and able to do that.
And  I was able to bring that training back, so when I got into tenth grade,  you know they- kids change classes?
So like, maybe the third period  I  took an advance.
I was the only  ninth grader taking advanced twelfth grade  um, dancing.
But then,  um, like maybe the sixth period,  I actually was a student teacher  while I was in high school s- And I got credit for that.
So  um,  never had to take gym.
That was a good thing.
I- I think I was a senior before I really realized where the gym was.
Or the locker room for the gym.
Cause you know, the dance room you have your own.
Um, but I- I enjoyed it because  it gave me an opportunity for a lot of independence.
I was still studying.
I was still dancing  at-  And I started dancing I think the eleventh grade I think for Parks and Recreation,  and I was dancing with them.
Um,  so I was dancing  two or three times during the day in school,  and then I would dance in the evening  at my little part time job  for RD-WORK-6.
And then by the twelfth grade I was dancing for RD-NAME-3,  who was  a prominent dance instructor for RD-WORK-6.
So I was dancing on Saturdays as well.
But I was actually studying at that point,  and I was studying point.
And I had stayed on point  until-  from maybe age sixteen to maybe age twenty one?
And  I think-  Cause that-  that was around the time that I  had my daughter.
I was married,  and then I had my daughter.
And I gave up um,  dancing-  Studying.
I didn't do that anymore.
It was like, okay, now you're a mommy, you're a wife.
You need to  become mommy and wife.
Well,  before um, becoming mommy wife  um,  transession-  transitioning out of high school  I went to college.
I went to the University- Well, what's now the RD-SCHOOL-8.
Um,  I did that for three years,  and I didn't enjoy it  because I was working.
I also had a-  um, a job.
Uh,  I worked for RD-WORK-2  RD-WORK-1  RD-WORK-2  that Marion Barry  ran.
And then I also had an opportunity to do this-  They used to call it Stay in School program,  where you went to school half a day and then-  My senior year you went to school half a day, and then you worked a half a day.
S-  so I had my first taste of government  employment, and I worked at a computer room.
And I was juggling  dancing, schooling, working.
Excuse me.
Um,  my father gave me an opportunity  or an option,  Either you can stay in school  or you can work full time.
You weren't gonna sit in this house and be lazy,  but you can do one or the other.
So he gave me that option, and  I chose  um-  I tried to do school and work full time.
That didn't work.
Tha- That was just too much.
So by the time I was twenty, I decided, Okay, I don't want to do this anymore.
So  I  um- I got married at twenty.
I had my daughter at twenty one,  and life just  took  a turn f- on its own  from that.
Uh, and I stayed married only  maybe three years cause we were both young.
He was twenty three.
I was twenty.
Clueless.
Um, but I did it, and got my daughter from it.
And it was a blessing cause I have her.
Um,  but it taught me a valuable lesson that  I was not gonna go back home  with a child.
I was determined I was gonna make it on my own.
Now  along that time I had  all the support in the world from my parents,  um, both  emotionally  and  um   financially.
Mkay.
Um,  I had um,  really good- very good foundation, very good support.
But  my independence was important to me.
So  I was not gonna go back home  with my baby  because my marriage didn't work, which my father told me not to do in the first place.
Uh, but I was defiant cause I'm just like him,  and I did it anyway.
Had great big elaborate wedding.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Real big wedding   \wi with the train, the dress, the whole nine yards.
Yep,  did that.
Um,  but I didn't let that  keep me down.
You know, I saw it  as a opportunity to prove to the world that  I can do this,  and I can do this by myself.
You know.
Um,  and then my father kind of put in my mind,  I know you can do this because I raised you so that you can be self sufficient.
You can take care of yourself.
Now, his whole model was,  I'm still here if you need me, but I need-  You know, you-  you-  He put in- He instilled in me  to-  to just do it myself.
And I did.
You know,  I look back now, do I have any regrets?
Absolutely not.
Some of the choices that I made-  Whoo.
Probably shouldn't have made them,  but I did, and  I think it  makes you a better person  if you can see-  Look at all the positive things that came out of that, the decisions that you made.
Have enough common sense,  don't do it again.
Well sometimes we don't always do that,  but  um-  But I look at it this way, I only had one child cause I realized  I didn't wanna raise more than one  child by myself.
Not to say that was gonna be the end,  but  I wanted to make sure that I could  af-  All the things that my parents were able to give me, I wanted to always make sure  I was able to give her.
And that was the most important thing to me because  she didn't ask to come into this world.
She didn't ask to be a part of the confusion  or the choices that I had made.
So that was very important to me.
So  I  um,  stopped going to school.
Uh,  I had  a year  and a half of a semester to finish, but I gave it up,    and I worked full time.
And I was a wife, a mother, and worked for full time.
And that was- At that point f- I worked for a um,  computer science corporation.
I was in the computer room.
I was a computer operator, and that was way back before there was anything that  everyone calls now.
There was no such thing as iPods and laptops.
Uh,  back then they were  mainframes.
And you tell people that now, like, What?
What is that?
Yeah.
Um, back when the computer took up- computer room took up like a whole floor.
Great big uninits.
So I did that  for  maybe  nine years?
Cause I think I was like maybe thirty,  thirty one,  before I s-  started changing gears in my-  in my profession.
By that time I was divorced,  and I bought my first home.
I bought a townhouse in Forestville,  um, when I was twenty six.
Sight unseen.
They showed me a picture on the piece of paper.
A little  plan.
Little brochure.
I bought my first house, I qualified for and everything, by myself.
And  that was a major accomplishment.
Um,  my  daughter,  I put her in private school.
She went to RD-NAME-6.
So  I felt like I was evolving.
I bought my first home.
I purchased my own car.
Um, that was my second car though.
My per- my parents  purchased the first one.
Um,  and  my child was in private school,  so I'm thinking back in those days, that's  the early  eighties.
That was major.
I was twenty six years old.
That was major.
Um,  so  life went  well for quite awhile, and  then  I think at thirty-  I think I was thirty.
I got married again.
I dated for three years, and then I got married at thirty.
Um,  and that was going well.
We moved  out of  um, my townhome.
I sold my townhome  and built um, a home that I'm in now in Clinton.
And I've been live- We-  We-  The plans and everything.
It was  gravel.
The lot was gravel,  and uh, my husband  and I  um,  we kind of designed it the way we wanted it inside,  and  um-  Because we actually  bought the home-  We got married in February of-  of nineteen  ninety.
Make sure that's right.
Yeah.
Nineteen ninety,  we built the home.
And we moved into our home  in  August  of nineteen ninety.
So  um,  and we lived in that home together  until two thousand five  when we both  realized by this time-  We were very active in my daughter growing up,  very active in all her school activities.
I mean she was in ROTC.
She was a  um, second lieutenant  in  um, it-  was at ROTC Air Force.
Um,  she was a cheerleader.
She played volleyball,  so our lives revolved around her.
And my  uh, ex husband  has a son,  so we had him for a brief period where he-  They're from Baltimore.
So he came, and he lived with us for awhile  and- til  that-  we weren't able to  maintain  a cohesive household.
So we-  So his mother came and got him, and  uh, my daughter got a chance to experience-  She didn't really know a whole lot about people being divorced and things like that,  so she got a chance to experience some of those things,  and the dynamics of trying to have a blended family.
And it worked for awhile.
It did, when they were younger.
And as they got older, when he was- Cause he's a year and half older than her-  So when he  decided he didn't  want to  obey with anybody,  um,  we went back to live with his mom.
so.
And then my daughter, she graduated from high school.
She went to RD-SCHOOL-3 High School,  and  uh, she graduated  uh, seventh in her class.
And with Honors.
She got accepted-  Every school that she applied to, she got accepted.
She  applied to Towson, um, Elon.
Uh, she applied  at-    Delaware State offered her a full scholarship  because of her academics.
Um, and she got a partial  scholarship-  academic scholarship for Penn State,  University  main campus.
So  I wanted her to have the experience  of  knowing that  our world is not just black  or African American,  whichever way you term-  I wanted her to be able to get along with all people  cause that's the way I raised her cause that's the way I was raised.
Um, so  I-  Some days I laugh now cause I think I'm still paying, but  I wanted to make sure she got  a good opportunity  to go to the- one of the best schools,  so she went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And  she  graduated- She lived on campus  all four years.
She graduated on time.
She graduated with  a-  I believe  a three point  two  average, which  uh, coming from Prince George's County School system,  that was major.
It was traumatic initially the first year for her  because  when you're  n-  graduated seventh of your class, you feel as though you've achieved something, you've arrived.
When she got a chance to go to RD-SCHOOL-2, and they  grouped them all together- all the freshmans  in an auditorium, and she got to work with kids or be around kids that-  from all different backgrounds,  she realized that she really didn't know much of anything.
And she wasn't really fully prepared  um, academically,  and that was  heartening.
But  I didn't let her give up.
I always instilled in her, You can do this.
You put your mind to it, you can do this.
I got your back.
You know, your dad and I got- We're- We're there for you.
You know you got your grandma and your granddad.
Everybody is pulling for you to do this.
It's gonna be hard.
It's gonna be challenging, cause now she's  really  fighting for survival.
But I wanted her to understand the independence, and she needed to know that  she couldn't do that going to school here with me.
Cause I n- I need you to know when I- You have forty dollars?
I need you to know how to make that forty dollars last until next month.
Or  if  I send you  a care package,  I need you to understand that  you have a meal plan, yes, but that's not for you to buy clothes and things.
That's for you to eat.
So you need to understand how to budget.
You need to un-  You know, it was just life lessons.
So I think I gave her that- I afforded her that opportunity, and I am very proud of her because she succeeded,  and she made it.
She graduated on time.
Um,  she was the  think  second or third only African American from the School  of Art  Cause she graduated with um, a art degree and a concentration in photography with a minor in computer graphics.
So I was very proud of her,  always have been.
I mean she's- she's-  I've been really blessed.
She's never given me any trouble.
I mean absolutely-  You know, there have been little hiccups, but those are just life lessons but  nothing major.
You know, no  n-  She might have cut class.
If she did, I don't know anything about it.
She didn't share it with me.
I- You know, I've never had to get the phone call three o'clock in the morning, Ma come get me cause I'm in jail, or  um- no drug use or anything like that, so I really  truly have been blessed.
Truly.
Back?
Okay.
Wow.
Um,  thanks to my sister probably on-  during the summer, more  on the weekends  because now that my mom is not living in DC any longer, and we just moved her here  um,  in Dec-  December.
So  maybe  um,  three-  maybe four times a month.
Well, no, I kind of just drive through it.
I h-  You know, I go back- Like, s- You know, we go over and check on the house or we take my mom back to the house, especially since the weather's been really really nice.
But I really don't-  When I- When I-  My husband,  when he and I- Cause he's from DC as well,  my current husband,  so when we started dating,  um,  we would go in to the city,  and we would go to concerts, and we would go to the museums.
Um,  we would go just walk on the mall  or he would take me down Georgetown, and we'd just go walkinging.
You know, just-  just to kind of hang out.
Um,  I've-  I've experienced  U Street since it's been revitalized.
I've  done H Street.
Now is that something I've done by myself?
No.
I haven't.
I can admit  that.
It's a lot of changes.
There's a lot of-  You know, I ride through the neighborhoods now that I grew up in or  places I've traveled  in growing up  when I lived there,  and I'm  amazed at the changes.
I'm amazed at h-  how-    When I grew up it was  all African American, all black.
Now you walk down any street  that  was like that and it's-  it's not that way anymore.
You know, it's not that way anymore at all.
And that's  especially U Street,  um,  H Street,  um,  heck, Minnesota Avenue.
And I'm thinking, okay, you see  Caucasians with babies,  strollers and dogs,  and I'm thinking  where- What happened?
You know, but then  um,  I get teased by my family because they call me the suburbanite  cause I hang out in the suburbs.
I live in Clinton.
That's usually where you'll find me, in Clinton,  home.
If I'm not in Fort Washington at my sister's, I'm in Clinton at home.
Um,  I  don't-  I feel safe, and I feel  secure f- in my mom's neighborhood  because  a lot of the  elders  still live there, so I don't have a problem with traveling in those areas.
Uh,  venturing further like,  Northwest or  just certain areas,  I'm not uncomfortable,  but I don't do it frequently.
I just don't.
I don't have a reason to.
Um,  m- but I-  Over the years- I would say the last three years-  I've tried to get out more and more.
Now I-  I love going to Eastern Market.
I love doing the walk and going through there.
I love still going down to the wharf.
I do enjoy that.
I still love certain parts of Hain's Point,  just to ride through and kind of just-  It brings back old memories or  um,  happier times maybe.
You know, growing up.
Uh, few  places  I  think um,  Fourteenth Street area,  um like,  Busboys and Poets and things like that.
There's certain restaurants-  I still do- We do restaurants.
Now I- I definitely do those,  but just  out walking  and just  you know,  in the elements,  I don't do that a-  as much.
Mm-hm.
Um,  wow.
They're brief.
Um, they're very brief,  and they were brief because my dad was  very strict.
He didn't allow me to  um-  If I needed to go somewhere in the city, he drove me.
Um,  outside of  me driving myself back and forth to college,  because I s-  You know, I stayed- I lived at home,  I really didn't venture.
I wasn't a partier.
I didn't hang out, didn't go to the clubs.
N-  I didn't do any of those things.
I just-  I never did, that's just never was a part of me.
So the memories that  I have like,  in the Spingarn area  or the Benning Road area  leading into H Street, that was more so because I played sports.
I played softball.
So- and I worked-  I worked in RD-WORK-6, and I played ball for RD-WORK-6.
So  that's really where I  got  my foundation as far as all my experiences  as far as really DC goes  um, because we got a chance to play all over the city.
But that was as a team.
I still never was-  That wasn't alone.
That was as a team.
And of course, it was a little challenging cause my sister was our coach.
Um ,  so I have very f-  great memories.
I have the memories  of  um,  traveling  down U Street  when  at  that time,  a lot of  the buildings and things  were boarded up  um, from-  from the sixties and seventies and all the riots and things like that.
It wasn't-  I won't say  all,  but I would say probably  thirty percent  was kind of boarded up.
Um,  you didn't have the people-  Like,  I didn't experience home- the homeless  people that we have now.
I don't remember  homeless people back then.
I- I really just don't.
I don't.
Because I remember when I was in high school I would catch a bus  that would take me  from  RD-SCHOOL-2 High School  and bring me all the way over to Benning Road,  and then I would transfer at Eighth and H  to catch the Benning Heights bus  that used to bring me right down the street from my door,  my house.
Um,  and  people weren't-  You weren't afraid to ride.
I would-  I-  If- You know, when I studied dance, I was coming from Howard University cause that's where I studie-  where we practiced,  up near Banneker,  and I'd get on a bus.
There was no s-  subway hadn't started just yet.
The early part of my high school, I think it around  eleventh grade, I think is when we got the-  the- the subway system.
But you didn't have any fear.
You-  you just got on the bus, and you went where you were going.
People didn't bother you.
Go get it.
Go get it.
Go get it.
There you go.
Okay good job!
Sh.
So  you didn't- you didn't have um- You didn't worry-  You didn't think about crime.
You didn't think about- Um, and just to take you back  cause I don't know if this will help but  when I was in high school,  the main-  the biggest thing was-  I think there was  one young lady that was  pregnant  that was in high school.
Just one.
Um, there wa-  You might have gotten caught  on the bleachers smoking  a cigarette.
Marijuana was-  wasn't a problem.
It wasn't a everyday occurrence.
So  those things that the kids going through now- those challenges-  we didn't have those challenges.
You know, the biggest thing was what team were we playing, who were we trying to beat in football on-  on Friday evening's  game.
You got a chance to go to a night game every now and then.
You didn't have them that often.
Most of your games were in the afternoon.
Um,  RD-SCHOOL-2 High School played  Roosevelt,  I believe it was,  at the stadium  while- when I was in high school.
So cheering at the stadium, that was a big deal.
So you didn't have all those-  all of the-  That I'm aware of,  all of the crime.
You know,  the fear.
You didn't have all that.
You- you- you- you just- you just didn't have it.
So  my memories  of-  And it sounds so strange, but I have to- I can be honest.
All my memories of H Street and all that area,  it was just normal.
It was nothing-  I- I mean I know that there had to have been some crime going on cause you would hear certain things.
But it's not like it is today.
You didn't have killings.
You didn't have-  You know, you might have fights- street fights,  but it wasn't anybody shooting anybody.
Um, that just wasn't heard of.
You know the biggest thing for me is  I got caught-  In the  tenth grade, I cut-  I cut fourth  period  cause I wanted to go- No, I cut  third period  cause I wanted to go to lunch early,  and you could leave campus in high school.
That was a major thing for me cause I cut class.
I thought I was doing something.
And that was-  And to me, that was who- me being ob-  You know, I was a rebel.
I caught class,  and I got caught!
So  you know, but you didn't- you just didn't have- You- Oh my gosh, no.
Not at all.
I- The things that kids do nowadays,  you never would have thought-  My father was crazy.
You    You would not live to see the next day.
He'd just-  But- but he-  I think what it is,  they instilled  a certain level of fear, and it wasn't  that-  You know, the sta-  statement people make, Oh I brought you in this world, I'll take you out- It wasn't so much that,  it was that you had a level of respect for your elders.
You know?
First of all,  I'm a representation of my parents.
If I'm'a go out here and act a fool,  I'm'a have to  go  back  to them, and that?
No.
No, that- that wa- it wasn't worth- whatever-  Whatever it could have been that I wanted to do-  Now I was not a saint.
Don't get me wrong.
You know,  I- But I really didn't do- I lived a very sheltered life,  unlike my sister.
She got a chance to go out and go party and  you know,  enjoy life.
I  chose not to.
Because we're twelve years apart,  by the time my parents came along,  they weren't as strict  on me.
But I also didn't wanna do a lot of the things.
Like I went to my first  house party-  I think I mighta been  seventeen?
And I went one- to one, and that  party was literally across the street  from my parents' house, and my father at eleven fifty nine  was banging on the door to the parents and telling them,  She has to come home.
I was not gonna go through that embarrassment again, so I didn't go to parties anymore.
I just refused to go.
You not gonna embarrass me like that again.
You know.
So  times are so different now,  you know.
Um,    so DC to me  was  quiet.
Um, I think I was exposed to a lot of  the more positive things than the negative.
You know,  so that's why I say yeah, I was kind of sheltered.
I was kind of sheltered.
Mm-hm.
Neither do I.
Okay so  I didn't have much more than what you had,  although w- there was no statute.
Um, growing  up,  um,    I remember going down- And I was-  My first boyfriend that had a car.
His name was RD-NAME-1,  and his mom would let him use the car.
And we drove down there, and you would go down I guess kids call parking now.
And you would go down and sit and watch the-  by the water, and watch  every now and then you see a boat or you see the airplanes.
You can go on the side where the air-  You know, where you can see the planes taking off or landing.
And-  But that was rare.
You didn't- That wasn't something you got to do all the time.
You could-  more so during the day kind of just ride through.
It was a nice little hang out spot.
I do recall going  um, not just Hain's Point but  Anacostia Park.
I remember riding there.
I remember,  back when I grew up-  Let's say under the age of eighteen-  As I said I was,  you know, the da-  one- one-  dancer by day and  tomboy by night.
You know I would ride my bike, and like if the guys were going to ride bikes-  It was one other young lady, she was like maybe three years older than me.
We would go ride our ten speeds, and we were-  That's how I got chance to tour the  whole c-  all of DC,  areas I had really never been in before.
Going to the-  You know, we rode from Southeast all the way to the zoo.
You can't get kids to get on a bicycle and do anything like that now.
But we- You know, we would go to the zoo, or I got a chance to experience the Kennedy Center.
Or  um,  Ana- riding through Anacostia Park on a bicycle,  or we actually rode to Hain's Point and rode the circ- You know, went all the way around.
Both East and West Potomac Park,  you know, on a bike.
So  we did athletic things like that.
Um,  as far as just hanging out with friends,  I think  as a senior in high school,  I might have got a chance to do that maybe once or twice.
My life experience was based around-  RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior High School  Recreation Center.
That's where my sister was the assistant director and the director.
So  my  experiences  were geared  of being a Recreation Center  kid,  a Rec kid.
You know?
So,  and I think that's another reason why I didn't develop all of the real strong f-  bonds  in my neighborhood because  from age thirteen  to age eighteen, I worked for RD-WORK-6.
Every summer  and during the week  two or three hours  every evening after school.
So that was my whole life.
So if I wasn't dancing,  I was at RD-WORK-6.
Um,  I got a chance to-  Now we had like dances and sock hops or whatever you wanna call it,  so that's- I got my experience at partying.
Um, I got my ex-  my first experience with drinking anything-  I remember Pink Champale was the first alcoholic drink I ever had.
I think I was seventeen.
I learned then I didn't like drinking.
That didn't go well-  didn't go well at all,  but we- seemed like everybody else was doing it, and I ch-  chose to you know, k-  I thought I was grown.
Okay.
But um,  so that's where I got my- my- my real  real  solid DC  knowledge from  was from being in r- being in-  in RD-WORK-6.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
No.
I really don't have any.
Mm-mm.
Because  um,  that was a-  a time of  discrimination and-  and the-  The Black Panther Party, and I heard about it all.
Um,  we talked about it in school even, a little.
Uh, cause I had-  Especially when I was in high school, Miss RD-NAME-2.
Uh, I'll never forget her, tenth grade.
She was  sh-  you know, short bush  tall,  real  dark chocolate woman,  and she was  straightly power to the people kind of rebel.
Um,  I learned from that,  but  first hand seeing it myself?
No.
Never s-  never-  Really didn't understand  the whole racists or any of-  didn't understand-  I-  Let me not say I didn't understand it.
I never had any  encounters o-  with it  at all.
No.
I was fortunate.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah,  I didn't- You know, whatever you saw on television, that's what I saw.
I didn't have to actually live it  or experience any of it.
I would have to say the-  the- the-  the largest discrimination that I experienced  if- if we had to put it in a category was  some of the kids  um,  that were hang out at the- at the Center,  at RD-SCHOOL-2 Junior,  lived in low income housing,  projects if you will.
And because I didn't come from that background,  there was always a thing where I thought I w-  You know, people say, Oh you think you cute,  cause-  You know  cause I wasn't from the projects.
I wasn't from the hood.
I wasn't!
Um,  couple of girls tried to jump me  couple of times.
Uh, I can still stand here at fifty five and say I've never been in a fight  a day in my life  um, because I wasn't taught to fight.
I was taught  I can talk my way-  I'm gonna talk my way out of this.
I'm not-  You not gonna hit me.
I'm not gon-  You know and this is on the streets.
I'm not gonna fight you.
First of all, we in your c- I'm not- I got enough sense to realize  this is your community,  this is your environment.
These are your people.
I'm an outsider.
Why would I try fighting you?
That makes no sense.
And I'm gonna get beat up cause I don't know how to fight!
So  that was dumb.
So no,  I don't have-  The whole U Street thing,  I-  I really-  Except for driving through.
You know,  um,  I think the whole drug  environment  piece  like-  What was his name?
RD-NAME-2?
Or something like that.
He was a big- a young, drug-  big  drug dealer in- in- in like  maybe the  seventies, eighties something like that.
Um,  my parents kept me away from stuff like that.
That's really the only way I can think of it.
They kept me in engaged in sports.
They kept me engaged in dancing.
They kept m- me structured so that I did not have to experience.
You know, and my dad  and my mom of all- you know, right there.
So like I said if I needed s-  to be somewhere, or needed to go somewhere,  my dad drove me.
He took me.
He didn't l-  I didn't-  Only occasionally were I- was I really allowed to ride the bus  places.
Saturday mornings if I had to go to dancing school,  some Saturdays I would ride the bus,  but  other than that,  they were there to pick me up and bring me home.
You know, so I didn't get a chance to just  venture and wander.
You know, um,  Like if the kids in the neighborhood were going to the movies,  somebody's mother was taking us.
Um,  and I didn't do that often.
I didn't get a chance to go and s- like, if I, you know,  going to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, you know, that's kind of-  kids are spread out all over coming to a school.
If I had friends and they wanted to do sleepovers and things like that, my  parents- No, my father's like, No, you're not sleeping at nobody else's house.
No.
They can come here, but no you not- And if they had brothers, oh no, that wasn't happening.
That's not happening.
And if they didn't live in  a  neighborhood community  with  structures similar to ours,  and you had maybe five or six brothers and sisters or just  five or six sisters,  my father wouldn't allow that.
He-  no, my- my dad was-  My version of my dad, he was bougie.
My father was bougie.
He-  but it wasn't-  it wasn't-  it wasn't in a sense-  Yeah he was just bougie.
He thought  he was making a better life for us so that we had better.
So  what as I would look at now, saying, Okay, well yeah you can go hang out with your friends and just  be back home at a certain time,  no.
My- my dad didn't-  And then I r- Like I said, I-  I learned very early that  there was certain things I didn't think he was gonna allow me to do,  so as not to get disappointed,  I didn't ask to go do 'em.
So I c- probably  caused some of my  structured and sheltered naive life.
Yeah.
That's how you can look at it.
It was  pretty naive.
Naive, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay, so,    my favorite movie-  Mm.
I have-  I have two.
I have two.
I love The Color Purple.
I mean, that- that's-  that's my ultimate.
Actually,  okay I have three.
But The Color Purple is one o- it's my favorite-  It was my favorite book  to read.
Um,   I-  the movie was good,  but I always have to say- I'll use that  with the book.
Um,  Roots  was one of my favorite movies,  and the reason being- It gave me  a lot of history.
Uh, ga- It gave me a lot of  um,  information  that they don't  teach you in school.
You know, the- it-  it gave me  my heritage  from a different perspective.
Um, not just,  Okay, so you know,  you came over on a ship, and you were this and you were that, but it gave-  It- it  opened up your mind.
It made you think.
It didn't change how I felt about people, but it just gave me a different perspective t- to see people  for what they are and who they are  and we were tricked or how  we were  judged  or how we were treated.
Um,  and it wasn't necessarily because we did anything wrong,  you know.
Um, my other favorite movie which is  way off the cuff is Pretty Woman.
Yeah.
Totally different.
Pretty Woman  actually it's my daughter and mine-  We- we- We'll always watch it, and we still do to this day if it comes on, we'll sit and watch it together.
Pretty Woman was  to me  a movie of someone who didn't have-  It was a white lady who didn't have everything in life.
She had a rough life.
She was on the streets.
Um, she was prostituting.
It wasn't cause she wanted to but it was t- for survival.
But she turned that around, and she still had a dream.
She still had something in her  that someone with  all the money in the world  could see some good in her,  and it just turned to be like a positive thing.
And he took her out of  the elements that she had  become, and gave her-  and gave her the opportunity to have a dream world.
It gives you opportunity to see,  okay, you may be down here and you may be down and out and you maybe just  at your lowest of your lowest, but if you persevere,  don't think less of yourself.
Just because he has money and he has stature and he has power,  why would you think that you could not  engage conversation or  develop a relationship?
And they-  And he-  She taught him so much about-  Because he s- felt as though he was so  high up,  so high and mighty.
But  it was more so  he  did not necessarily come down to her level  because she really had education and she had knowledge,  she just fell on hard times,  but it was a thing where-  It shows that  because you have all these things and all this position,  you're not better than.
Because now you're not really taking time to  just walk barefoot in the grass.
And my favorite line it is,  Lay like broccoli.
I use it all the time.
You just wanna just be.
You just exist.
You just wanna lay like broccoli.
I-  And that's one of the reasons I love that movie because it just-  It brings two different environments, two different  um,  background- people of backgrounds,  and it brings them together,  and they fall in love with each other.
It was unconditional.
I didn't judge you cause of who you were.
You didn't judge me cause-  And I love that  because I look at that's how people really should be.
Why- why- why would you judge somebody because of their background?
Learn who they are.
Learn to- Learn what it is about them that  you can learn from.
And that turns into a great experience,  so that's why I love that one.
Yeah.
One of 'em.
Or three.
Yeah yeah yeah.
Lay down .
Lay down .
He's sleepy.
Well,  okay, so they tell me  I was around the time when Junk Yard and all that came out.
Um,  at that time I was in the classical music.
Um,    and because I didn't go to go gos, never been to one.
Yeah, I've never been to a go go.
So,  um,  I-  I do know the music  in you know the-  Was it  um, Rare Essence and Junk Yard, and  I can dance to it.
I don't have a clue what they're saying.
That's  part of my naiveness,  at fifty five I still don't know.
I think at this point it's best that I don't know.
Um,  you know like the kids with the buckets and they beating on the bottom of the paint-  Is it a paint pail?
Paint bucket?
And a trash can?
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
So I kind of- I grew up during that time but I didn't listen to that type of music.
I was l- You know, the Yellowjackets, and I was listening to  um, Queen,    and I was into classical music during that time where everybody else was listening to  go go.
Because I was dancing,  and  I went into-  From age  fifteen to about nineteen I went into this classical thing, and I just-  You know, um, Beethoven and Bach and  um,  I got  into that.
I don't-  can't  tell you why,  so I don't really know.
Now as I've gotten older, I can appreciate  the go go music  and where it came from and Chuck.
You know, um,  but  can't say it's a favorite.
You know.
Okay, so at age sixteen, my sister taught me how to hand dance by holding on to the door seal of the kitchen.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
I didn't have a choice but to learn how to hand dance.
Didn't have a choice.
Yeah.
Um,    and  I've been doing it ever since.
I love it.
I- Now I can go to a-  You know, we can go out hand dancing, or  go to the- s-  See and that's the thing.
Because there's twelve years between us,  by the time I was turn eighteen, and I was able to actually legally go out  with her,  um,  the majority of my friends in my early twenties  that I would consider friends,  were my sister's friends.
Because that's when she and I got really really close.
I mean we were  thicker than thieves,  closer than close.
Um, and it wasn't  out of  because she had to take me, it was- At this point she enjoyed  us-  you know, my company.
And so we would hang out together,  and so  I got into a oldies-  m-  More so I would always be the youngest one in the-  You know, whenever she would go out, I'd be the youngest one in the group.
But she would allow me to go along,  you know.
Um,  so  hand dancing and  the bop and  like all of the  n-  most of the music, I know it all.
One I had to hear it and listen to it all the time, but  I learned appreciation for it.
I can say now I have a better appreciation for  music from the sixties and seventies,  then I do from go go music.
I just don't understand it,  and  I didn't take the time to really learn it.
Ha-   Hand dancing  is- I guess you can equate to a two step-  Of course there's more, but  to a two step  with a male and a female.
Um,  there's no grinding.
There's no  lot of body  touching.
It's good  clean  dancing.
I've never had- No one's ever r- asked me that before,  um,  so I  never really had a perspective on that.
I just look at it as  uh-  It's-  It's a learned skilled  dance  um,  that you can actually put your own flavor to.
You know, you can make it  what you want it to be, but there basic steps.
It's structured.
It is a structured dance,  but you can put your own little flavor to it.
I guess I could say it that way.
Bop is the same thing as hand dancing, it's just a slower version.
It's slower.
Um, it's not like-  I guess back in our day we used to call it slow dragging.
Yeah.
So it's not  that slow,  but it's a slower version,  and it's a flow.
It- It-  It has rhythm.
It just-  It's not like you just all over the place, all wild and just doing whatever, it  is-  It's like somebody s-  Whoever started it has maintained  through the years.
It hasn't changed.
I don't care how much  little extra you try to put on it,  the basic step  is  the same,  so I guess it's-  it's um-  I don't know.
I think it's-  it-  It's good exercise.
I think it's um,  I think it's a-  It's a s-  It's a dance that will probably  last a long time.
I think they'll be doing it for years to come.
You know, I know the kids nowadays-  You kn-  Because  if you think about it,  my generation didn't really do it a lot.
I learned it from my sister's generation.
The generation that's  after m- me,  so like,  the persons- people in their thirties and forties- late-  late thirties, early forties they have now taken it  on.
And it's become a thing to hand dance now.
But if you sit and you watch  them do it,  and you watch seasoned  couples do it,  you can see the difference.
They're doing the basic same steps,  but the younger generation, they flipping and flopping.
They're doing everything but flipping you over your back and twirling you around,  and all they doing a lot of turns and things like that,  where you can actually see the steps  of a seasoned person.
Just like there's a difference in hand dancing in Northeast  and Southeast, and they're- they're different versions.
Um,  Northeast  hand dance,  they have a stomp in the middle of it,  some kind of the way they do a stomp.
It's the same steps, but they put a stomp in  in one of their steps.
Southeast don't d-  Southeast people  didn't do that.
And I learned that just from being around my sister and her friends.
And you can always tell like,  um,  the Eclipse  versus the Chateau,  they don't dance the same.
It's the same dance,  but they don't dance it the same way.
And you can see the difference.
And I don't know that it's a generational thing or it's just a geographical thing.
That's- Neighborhoods have different- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It's like um,  any nationality that has-  They speak the same language but they all had different dialects.
It's the same thing.
It- it- it's exactly the same thing  in my mind.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
And the reason I say that,  majority of the time,  in my experience,  if I go anywhere-  It doesn't really matter where I go.
Most people will s- tell me-  ask me where am I from.
And I'm like, I'm from DC, and they're like,  Are you sure?
Y- Yes, I know where- I was born and raised in DC.
Uh, I don't split all my verbs and-   But  I think it's a stereotype.
I don't  speak with a lot of slang.
Um,  I'm not sure what people expect,  but I get that more so, especially from people  who live  and are from  DC.
They'll ask me,  Where are you from?
And I'm- I was born in Washington DC in Southeast.
And that's-  that stops it right there.
I-  I'm from Southeast.
I'm not someone from Souffeast .
There's a difference.
There's a Souffeast .
And I'm from Southeast.
And I've always-  that's- that's-  that's only thing I know.
So  I get  the different-  and- and if I'm out of-  If I'm in New York,  and they'll ask, Well where you from?
I'm from  DC.
And  I just recently started saying DC in the last maybe ten years.
Normally, I'd say, I'm from Washington,  DC.
And then I just  dropped the Washington cause that just sounds so formal,  and I would just say, I'm from DC.
And they're like, Well what area?
And I say, Southeast.
They're like,  Oh you're from Souffeast?
No, not Souffeast,   Southeast.
There's a difference in my mind.
Because- One block this way from my parents was the projects, Simple City.
Two blocks or  a few blocks away was  East Gate  and that whole area.
I wasn't allowed to really hang out or go around there much.
I would sneak,  ride my bike, ride through and come back home, but  you wouldn't-  You could never catch me there.
You know, I-  And it was only in the daytime,  truly.
But it was a difference-  the- the-  the  two block radius  that I grew up in everyone was pretty much on the same level.
Um,  I would say  probably educationally,  financially- the structures, it was family structured.
Not saying that-  I'm not saying by any means the projects don't have family structures, by m- I'm not saying that at all.
It was just different.
It was just different.
And  I don't believe we were raised to think we were better,  cause I truly don't think I'm-  I'm better cause I choose to be better,  not because of stature or anything like that.
I choose to be better for myself,  but  it was just different growing up.
And you knew  that  there was  a line,  this invisible line,  of the projects  because that's what they were called.
They were called projects.
Um, it wasn't a label that I've chosen to give it, that's just what it was called.
Yeah.
Simple C-  Actually it was called Simple City,  um,  and that's what you were referred to.
But  this wall-  There was a wall there.
There was this invisible wall.
And  if I look back now on-  I had-  uh,  several friends  that I went to school with  that to this day I still  communicate with and-  and they-  they grew up  in Simple City.
But I never saw them as anything different.
It was just a stigma.
It was a-  At the time, that was just-  that was just kind of like a-  I wanna say a generational kind of a-  not-  It was like a generational gap.
It was a- It was  a-  I don't wanna- You can't call it a neighborhood gap cause that is- that's not necessarily  accurate.
But it was just-  Because if you-  Really,  they-  The people that lived in Simple City  didn't-  did not come  in our neighborhood  much at all.
So you didn't see-  So it was kind of like,  everybody knew-  everybody s- It's like- like when people talk about the-  the d- railroad tracks.
It was kind of like a divider.
You stayed over here.
We stayed over here.
Now we all went to school together, okay?
But when you got off the school bus,  you went this way, and we would go this way.
So- and-  and  I find that  um- I had an opportunity to  um,  through my dance,  hang out with some people and get to know people from- that went to Roosevelt.
And that was interesting because their whole lifestyle was totally different from mine.
And it was from a perspective of-  Well,  they can stay out all h- all hours of the night,  you know.
There was a little gentleman that,  I'll never forget,  um,  wanted to date me,    and he would  drive.
His parents would let him have a car or  parent  would let him have a car, and he would drive  to my house.
Well,  I couldn't have company.
And I was seventeen.
You weren't coming in my house.
My father didn't play that.
And so he would come over, and  we could sit out on the front porch,  but about nine thirty,  you got to go.
That's- that's the end of your visit.
And I was only allowed to come to the door.
I could stand in the door.
I don't care how freezing cold it was,  but you were not coming in the house.
My father didn't allow that.
That's why I call it like a generational kind of  thing because  he just- he was not-  he wasn't for all that.
And if he didn't know your parents,  that wasn't happening.
That- No.
That's not gonna happen.
Not what you call- Well,  see?
What do- What do-  What's dating?
Uh, we could talk on telephone til nine o'clock.
And I had my own phone.
I got my own phone when I was thirteen  with my own phone line and everything.
Uh-huh.
But  you know,  and  back in those days, you know, you didn't close your door, your bedroom door.
All- Everybody's bedroom door stayed open.
So you couldn't hide.
Um,  dating for me was-  I didn't really date.
Dating for me I sat on the front porch or the front steps in front of the house  until-  Summertime, I might got to stay out til ten,  maybe.
But I better not be off those steps.
That was it.
That was a date.
Mm-hm.
I got a chance to go to the movies maybe three or four times, and that was with my-  my daughter's father  cause I was fourteen.
He was seventeen.
But our parents got a chance to meet each other.
So it was m- Yeah.
But he still wasn't allowed in the house  until I was probably about  eighteen.
Then he was a- He was allowed in the house then.
Cause by that time they  realized this boy is-  He's not going away.
He's here every day.
And he was actually  um, at Howard.
I was at RD-SCHOOL-2, he was at Howard.
Mm-hm.
So that was the only saving grace cause they thought he had some potential.
Cause he was in college.
Yeah.
And he-  And- And he was Catholic,  and went to Queen of Peace,  which was a neighborhood  Catholic church.
So  on Catholic school, so y- yeah, he's He- he- Yeah, he went- He went to- Yeah, he went to Carroll.
Uh-huh, how little did they know, but yeah.
Little did they know.
Um,  But I didn't get a chance-  I- I don't have any-  me- no memories of hanging out,    no memories of staying out past midnight.
No memories of going to all the parties.
That's why I don't party now,  you know.
And I'm okay with it!
You know, I- I've-  I look at my daughter now,  and she goes out- And we have a rule,  if you not coming in, you call.
You know.
Or  um,  especially when she  went away to college and came back home.
And I realize you're out on your own, so I,  you know-  I'm not gonna go back into mommy mode, but  you still have to respect my house.
So  I sit back sometimes, and I think about the things that she's had an opportunity to do  that I never even would think of.
Never even thought-   couldn't even imagine.
Going away?
Are you kidding me?
All night long?
Are you serious?
Spending the night somewhere else?
Somebody else's home?
Let alone let it be a male?
Oh my God.
No.
Mm-mm.
I think the  first time I spent the night  I was living in my townhouse, so I was over twenty six.
Being married, separated, and divorced with a child  was the first time I e- ever spent a night at a man's house,  that was not my- Yeah.
That wasn't my house- So I didn't-  Very sheltered.
Whatcha got?
Um,    one of my favorites,  I would have to say, would be Legal Seafood downtown on Seventh Street.
I think that's Legal Seafood on Seventh Street, yeah.
Um,    Oceanaire.
I think that's what- F Street?
Yeah.
That's one of my favorites.
Um- Oh,  very much so.
I'm a-  Yeah, big seafood eater.
I will say this.
Before they tore down Market Inn,  down in Southwest,  used to be right beside the bridge.
Market Inn is-  was a-  a very nice prominent little-  little s- It-  It was  kind of steak and seafood  restaurant.
My dad took me there f-  um-  Well the family went  when I w- when I turned thirteen.
And that was major  beca- And what I will say,  they always gave me  the better restaurants,  the better-  to get the exposure.
Um,  you know, at twelve, thirteen years old, dressing up to go to dinner.
Um, that was a really big in our family then,  growing up.
That was really important to him.
Um,  so  now-  Do I have a favorite now?
As long as you have decent seafood I'm good.
You know,  I'm-  I'm- I'm happy.
At the harbor, I don't really have any favorites.
I l-  There's-  I like-  Cause I like- I like Mexican food as well, so  um-    Bond Forty Five, I love that place.
It's really nice.
Because it- there are times when  I want  to-  I want the influence.
I want  the-  the-  to-  to dine,  not just eat.
I want to dine.
I want the linen.
You know,  I want  the three forks, and you have to figure out which fork goes with y-  I want-  I want that-  that level  of eating.
Now,  the quality of food,  m-  most times than not  is up to that same standard.
Um,  but then I have the times where it's like, Okay, let's just get something to eat and keep it moving,  you know.
Mm,  not-  Chinese food's probably about the only thing I do  carry out.
And it's w- Nah, I g- I outgrew that one.
They took-  Uh, there was a restaurant  growing up,  used to be very famous for their  um,  chicken wings  and their steak and cheese sandwiches.
It was on Benning Road.
It was called Aces.
It was right near Fort Chaplin apartments.
That was my mumbo sauce- in high school  that was my mumbo sauce days.
Cause there was a place  off of A Street  over by RD-SCHOOL-2  that had the best mumbo sauce.
I haven't had mumbo sauce in so many years I probably wouldn't know what it taste like.
I-  And now-  Like I-  I'm not a big pizza eater anymore.
I'm- I'm more of a seafood eater.
But if I'm gonna do carryout,  Levi's, I'll go there occasionally cause that's in the neighborhood.
That's in my neighborhood, so I'll go there, but not-  That's- that what I call  not fast food, but I didn't have to cook it.
That's what I call that,  you know.
Um, but Chinese food probably would be  the only thing, and- and I'm just getting s- usually soup  for that or  shrimp fried rice or something like that, nothing major.
It's not- As long as it's seafood based, I'm good.
I'm happy  cause I'm- I'm more of a seafood eater than I am a steak eater.
I eat steak maybe three times a year,  if that.
Actually that might be stretching it.
I'm not a big rib eater.
I eat  maybe  two or three times in the summer,  and then I may not  eat it again til the next summer, so.
Um,  mm.
Probably would have to be  the statue of Martin Luther King.
That is  surreal.
It-  it-  it just- I get a calmness  when I just- if I'm just near it.
You know, it's like-  like you just wanna touch the wall and just feel the-  the history behind it.
So I'd- I really enjoy that.
I really enjoy that.
Um,  that's probably-  that's-  that would have to be my favorite now.
Yeah, that's my favorite now.
It just- You just take a deep breath of-   It's like, really?
Because it's like  he- he was the-  the transcend for-  for everything, I mean everything  not everything that we have,  but he-  and I'm not saying he was perfect by any means,  but  what he stood for  is- is-  is just-  And it's not from what you learned or what,  you know, they  tried to teach you in grade school.
I actually have,  you know, like read it- t- a few of his,  you know, a few books  and autobiographies  just to give different perspectives on him.
Um,  of course you know, you watch all the different movies and all that, but of course Hollywood's put their spin on it, and they don't tell everything.
But um, to be able to use the comparison between the two,  I enjoyed that.
Yeah.
Mm.
As it relates to?
To young people?
To thine own self be true.
Know who you are.
Um, develop it.
And  always have respect for not only yourself,  but for others.
I think respect is so important  because you can get so much farther  in life.
Treat people the way you would wanna be treated.
That's always important to me.
That's something I've instilled in my daughter,  and it's like  you know-  I don't care what someone has done to you,  you really never know what a person has gone through or is going through at that moment,  and something I've learned um,  from church-  from s-  from my pastor in the last month,  is learning to die to yourself.
You know, he's on a- He's teaching now  on killing- on-  It's- it's called  killing yourself  or suicide.
But it's not from the perspective of killing yourself  physically,  it's killing yourself from  a spiritual perspective  that-  I don't have to be right all the time.
I don't have to know everything.
So  I don't have to  take anger to everything.
I don't have to have an opinion about everything.
So if you were to say something  cause you can't offend me unless I allow you to offend me.
Okay?
My response to anything that you say or do is my responsibility,  and that's what I'm-  that's what I've been taught.
So if you say something  and your intent is to  anger me,  it's up to me to die to myself  and not allow you to have control  over me.
So that's why I said  to thy own self be true.
So if-  if-  if-  for young people,  or anyone really,  no one control you unless you give them control.
And that's my lesson I'm learning these days.
I'm not quick to anger anymore.
My m- If you do something I don't like, Oh, okay.
If you do something that doesn't make sense to me,    mm.
Okay.
At the end of the day,  you may continue to do something that bothers me, but I-  It's up to me if I allow you to bother me.
And it doesn't mean I don't care,  I do care.
But I choose not to let  people have control of me.
And that way,  I always-  My- my- my running line is,  If I do not get into heaven, it will not be because of someone else.
It'll be because of something I did.
So that would be probably it.