Okay.
So- I didn't have to drive twenty five miles for a date.
So, um,  my- my memory of, um, U Street and some of the areas there,  I was  a teenager  and, um,  just starting to g-  gain my independence.
I d- g-  got my driver's license and  got to drive the family car and got to go out and- and do some things and so  there were-  there were great  s-  places that were just fun,  um,  lively,  and safe.
Um,  so you could go to,  um, U Street and there were-  there were three- I don't- I know there was The Republic-  There was a Howard Theater down-  Well before they had great shows  til they closed,  and I think they closed around the time of the riots.
Um,    you had the Republic Theater, and then there was-  there was one or two more along U Street, so  you know you wanna go to the movies, there were g- great  fun theater- nice- nice, very nice theaters to-  to go to to see the movies.
There were  restaurants along that area.
You had, um-  you had a jazz club  on U Street.
Um,   and there were other th-  there are other things going on but I didn't- I was too young, just kind of-  know all about them and  too young probably to be in some of them.
Uh,   but, um,   I just remembered being very lively,  um, very entertaining and a lot of- a lot of fun.
Um,  it was also about the time that  w-  more of a- more people were venturing  uh- to Georgetown.
So,  um,  you had the, um-  the Cellar Door over in Georgetown I remember which was a great jazz spot.
Um,  I think Blues Alley came along a little bit later,  and you had a couple of other restaurants, uh- r- uh-  the clubs and restaurants over there that were kind of nice.
Um,  but,  you know, U- Georgetown was one of those places-  One of the things you could do in DC back then is you could find a place to park.
So  so  you could drive to these places,  and  always find a place on the street to park and- and it was- it was easy.
It w- And you weren't  a long distance away  from  wherever it was that you were trying to go.
So I- I- I remember that being a lot of fun and  easy to do and,  there were nice places to go and,  um,  it-  good events to attend.
Come downtown and you had the Warner Theater and,  um,  the National Theater sometimes would have things that were of interest and,  um,  you had-  This was a little bit later.
This is probably when I was in college and l- and after.
You had a lot of these, um,  small  sort of neighborhood theaters.
So they were doing, uh- and  They were the ones that were putting on a lot of the black plays.
Um,   and, um,  they were great.
I mean some of th- some of the- the- the performances  were just outstanding  and, you know,  culturally relevant.
Um,    so that- that was a lot of fun.
I enjoyed-  I enjoyed that when it-  But that was more,  uh, of the time that I was in college and after college when I come on the weekends and stuff.
Or the summer.
Seventies, yeah.
Yeah.
Changing.
Well re- it was sort of  coming- coming back.
Yeah, it was sort of- it was sort of coming- coming back.
I think so.
And I hadn't thought about it but now that you mention it, I think it was  sort of, um,  more locally focused, neighborhood focused.
Um,  there was-  I- I- I- I also now in thinking about it think that it was a time  where there was a lot of black entrepreneurship.
So  you h- you had-    Excuse me.
Yeah I'm okay now.
Um,  you had, um, a lot of small neighborhood businesses, um,  like, these c- in these community theaters and theater groups.
And so it was an opportunity for people who had an interest and wanted to do something,  um,  on their own to sort of venture out there and try  and there was-  there was  community support and  other r- resources available to help them  do that kind of thing and so  I- I- I think that there was a l- there was a lot of  that kind of entrepreneurship.