Um, it's fun.
Like,  it's really festive.
Um, I usually dress up as a princess  since it's my birthday  and Halloween.
Um,    and I get a lot of candy and cake.
Yeah.
In Washington, DC.
Um,   so  for like,  the first  eleven years of my life,  um,  I lived at, uh, RD-ADDRESS-8  Northwest Washington, DC,  um, which I guess is like,  Brightwood area?
Or like Fort Stevens?
And then   we moved to-  I think the technical term for my neighborhood I live in now is like,  East Colonial Village but I've never heard anyone refer to it that way.
But it's like,  on the other side of Sixteenth Street opposite of Shepherd Park  and my address there is, uh,  RD-ADDRESS-6 Northwest Washington, DC.
Yeah.
Well, um, um, my elementary school-  I went to RD-SCHOOL-1 Elementary School,  and then for middle school I went to RD-SCHOOL-7.
Then for high school I went to the RD-SCHOOL-3 School.
And now I'm at college at Georgetown.
Yeah.
I'm a junior.
Um, I'm a Psychology major  with a Cognitive Science minor.
Uh, my father was born in Anacostia.
She was born in DC, uh,  like in Northeast, like Michigan Avenue area.
I don't know what-  She- sh- sh- she grew up on Delafield Place.
But I don't know what that neighborhood is called.
Uh, my dad's an architect.
He actually works here at Georgetown in the basement of the building I currently live in.
New South.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We will.
Yeah, no.
Yeah.
Like, probably  thirteen years.
Okay.
The Office of Planning?
Oh.
My dad's RD-NAME-4?
Okay.
It's really crazy.
Yeah.
My mom's also an architect.
She's-  She's with the Smithsonian.
Um, she used to work at the zoo, and now she's like downtown  with like,  the museums on the mall.
I don't know which specific museum.
Cause she works with all of them so I don't know where she is  right now.
But she just moved downtown.
Um,  well at the zoo she designed like, the exhibits, and then one of the research facilities for the animals in Front Royal, Virginia,  which she still does work on.
And then now,  um,  I don't really know cause the job is really new.
Like, she just moved down there.
Um, but I think she's just involved in like, exhibit design and like,  um, inter- like more of the interior stuff so like choosing paint colors and stuff.
Mm-hm.
Um,  Yeah so  growing up I really liked,  um,  the first house we lived in,  um, on Fourteenth Street.
Um, I liked the neighborhood because  there were a few kids in my neighborhood and like,  especially my next door neighbors, uh,  their grandkids were always over there.
And,  um, I was really close with them.
All their names began with Ds.
So there was Diamond,  Dougie,  which was a nickname, and then, uh,  Demani.
Um,  and then the grandfather's name was Douglas.
Um, and then there was  Douglas's- the grandfather's son,  his name was- his nickname was Toot.
I never knew his real name.
But, uh,  I was really close with them.
And then on  the other side of our house,  our other neighbor  was this old lady.
Her name was Miss RD-NAME-1.
Um,  she's  I guess like my grandma in a sense.
Um,  her and my mom are really good friends and actually when we moved,  she started crying, and it was like-  it was like a very dramatic sob.
Um, just because we were so close.
Like, our house had, um, cause my parents are architects they were always like updating the house and we added a balcony  to our house.
And like, my mom would pass food to  Miss RD-NAME-1  through her window  from our balcony.
So we were very close.
Um,  but yeah I really liked.
the neighborhood  Um,    like a few blocks away some girls that I went to elementary school with  lived there.
Um, so they would come over to my house a lot.
And, uh,  we l- we were really close to  a playground, a tennis court, and a Safeway.
Um ,  and so we would  walk there a lot.
Um, and then one of my really good-  like my best friend from elementary school, she lived on the other side of the Safeway.
Um, so my sister and I would ride bikes to her house a lot.
Um,  but then,   one day,  uh, so like they were two main events that  were why my parents thought we should move.
The first one  was that, um,   so our neighbor  whose family all  had let- uh,  their names began with the letter D,  um,  the one who didn't  have a name that began with a D,  Toot,  he was like wrapped up in like, drugs.
And like,  we think there was like a drug deal that went down that involved our house  because we saw someone run through  our-  They ran up the stairs onto our patio  near our front door and then there was a side door,  they ran down there.
And then our gate was unlocked so they went to our backyard  and we think they hid drugs under my dad's car and then came back and got them later.
So that was one instance where my parents were like, mm, maybe we should move.
And the second time,   this homeless man came up on to our porch  and was sleeping there.
And we didn't know he was sleeping there cause like,  nighttime everyone else was asleep.
And one night my sister was going down the stairs,  and my sister's just really funny.
Like she doesn't really think anything's a big deal.
So she came into the kitchen and-  and  my dad and my mom were sitting there and she was like,  hey I think someone's just like, on our porch.
And it was a homeless man.
And so  that was a problem just because my mom's office  was like,  an extension so like,  our living room-  It was like the stairs where my sister was walking down and saw the homeless person.
Then there was a living room and then my mom's office,  which was like an extension of the house.
And that- and there was a door to my mom's office on the outside  that you could get to it from the patio  near our front door.
And so my mom was afraid that like if we left  that door unlocked  that the homeless man would come into the house  because everything was connected.
So that's when we decided we should move.
So then we moved to, uh, RD-ADDRESS-2 Street,  and  when we- my parents first showed us the house, I was really impressed just because I never thought we'd be able to live  in that type of neighborhood.
It's just like, really nice.
And the houses were so big.
And our house on Fourteenth Street was  pretty small.
Um, so I thought that was cool.
But I don't really like change so I still didn't really wanna move but, um, I glad we did cause like the neighborhood we live in now,  there's like no  like you would never find it on purpose whereas like,  Fourteenth Street there was like a  bus stop and- right out in front of our house and like apartments and stuff.
So there was always people there and there was never any parking.
But now  there's all the parking in the world.
Um,  and like I feel safer up there just because like,  it's mostly old people  so I don't view them as a threat.
And like,  I walk my dog at like,  anytime, even at night, and I feel  pretty safe,  so.
Yeah, I appreciate our house now.
I have a little sister and a older brother.
My little sister's seventeen.
And my older brother is thirty four.
Yeah.
Yeah, he- he's from my dad's second marriage.
So like my half brother, but that doesn't matter.
Yeah,  I'm closer to my little sister just because we've lived together the longest,  and also we're closer in age but  now that we're all getting older,  um,  our relationship with our brother has improved a lot.
Yeah but then he went to college.
And then uh,  plus he wasn't interested in us when we were y- younger just because like,  we were little kids.
Like my- and my brother was a teen.
He did not care that these  two babies were in the house.
So yeah.
Mm-hm.
On the- Yeah.
It was from school.
We both went to RD-SCHOOL-1  but we didn't become friends until the second grade.
Um, and we both entered in the first grade.
But that's just because we weren't in the same class, like the same homeroom  uh, in the first grade.
Um,    I don't really know how we became friends.
I just remember like,  I thought our moms looked alike  because they're both like the same skin tone and they have the exact same haircut.
And I always thought that was really cool.
Um,  so I guess I just started talking to her about that.
And then we became friends that way.
Yeah I really can't remember how we became friends.
Mm,     I guess like,  uh, English.
I'm not really good at math.
math  I hate math because of that.
And  science was just okay.
And I really liked reading.
So yeah I guess like English and  reading.
Those were my favorites.
Right?
Yeah, so, um,  should I tell you why?
Sure yeah.
Well no like high school is when I  figured out what I wanted to major in in the tenth grade  in my health class.
Because we all had to choose a sub- like a mind altering substance and research it and I chose alcohol.
And I just thought like,  the way the brain works was so cool.
Um,  and also like,  I was fascinated with drug addiction  when I was in the tenth grade.
No particular reason.
I just -  I just thought it was like,  really interesting  and like,  the way people paint addicts  is like it's solely on them,  and they don't really look at like,  just the fact that it's-  I mean sure they started taking the drugs but after awhile  it's something that they can't control and they feel like they need the drug.
Um,  that was interesting to me.
Plus like,  with the whole psychology thing, my  grandfather h- has Alzheimer's and my grandmother is bipolar.
And my,  uh, uncle  is schizophrenic.
So like,  mental illness was also really interesting to me.
That's why I chose psychology and cognitive science.
Yeah.
Yeah I wanna  do clinical research about these  different  mental illnesses.
Um,  and like I want to conduct clinical trials.
But recently  I've been having a change of heart because  I listened to this podcast, um,  I think it's called like Codeswitch?
NPR.
Yeah.
And they did one about like,  cognitive behavioral therapy with this group of boys in Chicago  and like,  how  it was like  going to these therapy sessions was like helping them deal with their aggression  and it was like decreasing the number of fights and like gang violence in Chicago.
Um, and I just think that  would also be really interesting to do.
Just because it's all like about impulse control and like why people do the things they do  and also showing  people that there's, uh, healthier outlets  to express themselves  instead of just immediately jumping to like  being aggressive.
So I'm thinking about that  right now.
But  currently  I work in a lab  that specializes in like aphasia.
Um,   and I'm also really interested in Linguistics so like with that  I like  that like  combines the psychology and linguistics.
Um,  but I'm seeing that I think I wanna work with like,  actually  physically work with patients because like working in the lab is  really boring.
Cause all I do is transcribe things.
And I'm like really good with people so I feel like I'd be better working with actual patients and like,  people who have suffered from strokes.
So we'll see.
No it's so funny.
I thought that was due on Friday.
So you sent out that email and I was like wow, I got to do this tonight .
Yeah.
Well my high s- or my middle school asked me to leave,  so.
Um- Yeah so,  um,  when I was in the eighth-  so like like I said I'm bad at math.
When I was in the eighth grade I w- like I wasn't failing math.
I was getting like C minuses.
But I guess like,  RD-SCHOOL-7 is all about test scores and I'm not very good at standardized tests.
So they framed it as a-  like,  they were asking me to leave because of my test scores  but like,  out of all the girls  I know I wasn't the only one failing.
And I know wasn't  like the worst one.
So I think it's because I was black.
Like five.
And it was like they wanted like a certain type of  black girl.
I think like  cause when I- I got there in the sixth grade and, um,  I was having like a hard time just because I-  I was used to public school.
So this private school was a lot harder  and  I had never been to a predominantly white school before.
So I was struggling, but eventually I figured it out and I  became pretty popular I guess and  had a lot of friends  and so  I guess they just wanted like a  black girl that was like,  I don't know, that would just like, be silent and like follow all the rules and stuff.
I don't really know how to explain it.
But  that's the best that I can do.
No.
No.
I just- I just- I really was unprepared when I got to that private school.
Like I realized  I just  was not  ready  in terms of-  Academically.
And also socially, I just wasn't prepared for that change.
Like I was really behind in my math class  because my  math teacher specifically-  Cause I left after the-  I left public school after the fifth grade.
That year my math teacher had got engaged  so she wasn't really interested in like  teaching.
She was more so interested in planning her wedding.
So I didn't really learn a lot  and like,  I just wasn't being challenged in public school.
And then when I got to private school, I was just really behind  and I had to get  a tutor  for math specifically.
Everything else I could figure out.
Um,  but math was just  not good for me.
Well I had been used to p-  private school so  high school was fine and like,  RD-SCHOOL-4's pretty like, uh,  progressive.
They call themselves progressive.
Um,  so it was like a nice change from RD-SCHOOL-7 which was all girls,  and they required us to wear uniforms.
Um,  or like there was a strict dress code.
There was uniforms for the sixth grade and then there was a strict dress code  for seventh and eighth grade.
Um,  and I just-  I was-  I was in like a better environment- academic environment when I went to RD-SCHOOL-4,   um, because the classes sizes were smaller  and the teachers were actually helpful and  they  weren't  discriminating against me.
It was pretty diverse  I'd say.
Like my friend group,  um,  was maybe like,  three black girls,  two black boys,  and like,  three white girls  and then one Asian girl.
Or one Asian boy  and then, uh,  like one  white boy.
She stayed in  public school  cause RD-SCHOOL-1 only goes up to the sixth grade so she stayed there and then she went to,  um, Carroll, which, is that a private school?
Yeah.
Oh.
Sorry.
Yeah yeah.
No.
Yeah I don't know.
I just know she w- ended up going to Carroll  and yeah.
But most people- If you got to RD-SCHOOL-1 you're sposta to go to  Deal and then Wilson just cause they're all in that same neighborhood.
Um,  but  the pu-  public schools weren't really  teaching  enough  in my parents' opinion.
And my opinion I guess.
Uh,  the money.
Cause my dad works here they pay for two thirds of my tuition.
Um,  and I- I mean  I always thought I would go to college in New York  cause I really love New York City  but, um,  my mom didn't want me to go there  and then I didn't get in  to NYU  so that was definitely off the table.
Um, and out of all the s-  the schools I got into  Georgetown just made the most sense in terms of like,  the name  and the  academics here  and the money,  so.
Yeah I still knew that even though I came in undecided.
Mm-hm.
Yeah so one of my friends,  um,  from my freshman door- dorm, she lived on my floor  and she's a linguistics major.
And one night we were in an Uber  and the driver was asking us about our majors,  and so he started talking to her about linguistics, and I didn't realize how much you could do with linguistics.
Cause I didn't really know what it was like coming into  Georgetown,  and so hearing her talk about it I was like, oh like,  maybe I can get into this.
And plus with the cognitive science minor,  you have to take two classes in like these different areas, and I hate-  Like I don't really like math.
I don't really like science-  Like-  like actual science.
Psychology is like a social science so I'm okay there.
So I decided to do- do my two c- requirements in philosophy and linguistics.
And so I took the Intro to Linguistics class, and I was like, I'm doing really well here.
Like I can really do this.
So  I plan on to keep taking linguistics until I graduate.
I just think it's really interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  I'd say that  I definitely code switch, I guess, between Standard English and AAE  depending on who I'm around.
Um,  especially since I'm  like I'm black and so  in these professional spaces AAE is like, looked down upon.
But it isn't fair but  that's just the way it is so-  And because I do work in a lab  I'm the only black person in that lab.
And,  um,    so just  I'm more mindful  of my language I guess because of your class.
Yeah.
When I'm at home.
I go home a lot.
I go home- I've gone home every weekend.
Especially this year.
And, um,  I'm on the board for the Black Student Alliance so when I'm with them it's definitely okay.
It's definitely what's expected of me.
Um, and I just feel really comfortable there.
Mm.
Yeah.
Everyone's always doing something.
I'm sorry .
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
This is my second year.
I- I was in New South.
No.
But  that's where I was placed and  I needed the money,  so.
Um,  uh, well first of all,  um,  when I was a freshman  like I was getting-  In addition to my dad- like the tuition  from Georgetown because of my dad,  I was also getting some other financial assistance but then Georgetown took that away and then made my parents pay back what Georgetown had given me which really sucked.
Um,  and I've actu- they've actually done this to like other girls  who have coincidentally been black.
But we don't need to get into that.
Um,   so when that happened, my parents were like well,  we can't afford to pay for housing so you either need to become an RA or live at home.
And at the time I didn't know how to drive so like,  I didn't-  I couldn't live at home because  I didn't wanna rely on my dad getting me  to and from campus every day.
So I applied to become an RA  and like,  I knew I'd be good with it- good at it  cause I'm good with people and like interacting and like  I'm a big sister,  and I love being a big sister so like,  I'm good at helping people and I'm comfortable doing that.
Um,  and I didn't mind being placed with freshmen.
Um,  and plus I-  I wanted to live alone,  so.
It's been so exciting living alone.
I love living alone.
Um, so I don't mind living with freshmen.
They are loud  but  that's fine.
I'm good at tuning them out.
Um,  and like,  I find that they really do appreciate the stuff I do for them even when  I don't think it's a big deal.
Like every Sunday I bake cookies for them  and they think it's the greatest thing in the world but  I don't really see  the value in it just because it's like the same cookie dough  every  Sunday.
It's like pre-made.
I just put it in the oven but they really like it.
Um,  and this year specifically  I'm like- I think I'm a way better RA just because  I'm more comfortable interacting  with all these residents and like,  I've been actively putting myself out there  to connect with my residents cause like last year  I didn't really like  m-  It's not that I didn't wanna talk to them- my residents,  but I didn't think they needed me as much as  I now see that they do.
Um, but next year I'm gonna be in RD-WORK-3 with, uh, upperclassmen  which is great.
I am nervous about having roommates again though  cause my first experience with roommates  wasn't very good.
No I am.
I'm gonna just be in like  a suite.
So I'll be living with other people.
Yeah.
I get my own room but then I  share a bathroom with two-  Yeah yeah.
Okay yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Yup.
Yup.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
They want reassurance.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Um,    I guess like I'll have to like  be more intentional with my interactions  just because like  maybe they won't be as actively in like seeking me out.
Um,  but I think that's like-  I think it'll be better in some ways just because I'll be more-  I don't know.
I feel like now with freshman  I-  I d- I can do the bare minimum  and they appreciate it.
But with the upperclassmen I'll have to like put in more effort  in the interactions that I do have with them just to make sure that they're getting the most out of it  and that I'm being like,  as helpful as I can be for them.
So  in this case I'm excited for the change.
Plus I'm trying to become more comfortable with change since I'm about to graduate  in a year.
I just-  Why?
I don't see the point in changing  things that work  that are like,  I'm-  I like routines  so  change is r-  messes up the routine.
Um,  y- uh,  no, just because like,  with preregistration I'm able to like  mentally prepare for what my schedule's gonna be and I've been lucky  I've been able to get all the classes I sign up for.
So like with preregistration I'm able to like know  what's gonna happen   so like  I'm okay cause I- I'm able to like  assess everything  and mentally prepare before the semester starts.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah that's the thing.
I'm-  Like it's really draining to have to be like, excited to see my freshmen all the time  when I really just wanna go lay down.
So   yeah.
I lived in VCW  with three other girls which was interesting.
You sound like my mom.
My mom wants me to go to grad school  which I agree I should go to grad school.
I don't necessarily know if it should be right after  college but  my mom thinks I should go because Trump is president so I might not find a job.
But like that's her being afraid that  I won't have a job.
But I'm not necessarily too afraid cause my parents told me I can live at home for free  as long as I'm trying to get a degree.
So I might take them up on that.
But I also feel like I need to leave DC at some point in my life.
S- I've been here  for so long   and like I didn't go abroad  while I was here cause like,  I didn't want to.
Like I love-  I don't like change.
And I- I love my house.
I love my mom.
I love my sister.
I love my dog.
I did not wanna leave them.
S- but  at some point  I should go experience something else.
Um, I'm the vice president of programming for the Black Student Alliance.
Right now I'm planning our  big event  on- Yeah.
I'm not particularly excited .
Planning it as been hell.
Like my committee members aren't really helpful.
Everything is on me.
People say they're gonna help you and then don't.
Um,    it's all on me.
And I'm tired.
Yeah.
It's at the Washington Court Hotel on New Jersey Avenue.
You should come.
Yeah.
Yeah?
It is.
Yeah.
It's a lot.
Fundraising is a lot.
Mm-hm.
And then giving me an attitude when I ask them to do the bare minimum.
That gets on my nerves.
But,  you know,  I'll make it through.
It's May first.
Yup.
From seven thirty to one AM.
No.
Cause we can't afford it.
But the Law Center shuttle  drops you off right in front of the hotel.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Um,  I typically stay in Northwest  because  I don't like driving.
And now that I can drive  I'd just rather go to places where I for sure know  that I'm guaranteed parking  because I don't know how to parallel park cause for DC tests you don't have to know that.
So I can just like pull in to spaces  but I-  like  I don't know how to- Like backing in to f- spaces is very hard for me.
Um, so like I like going places where I know there's gonna be parking and just like  I know how to get there.
Cause like trying to drive somewhere  and like having my phone talk to me  is very confusing for me .
Um,  but I'm pretty good with directions like I-  I pay attention where my  parents drive me places- have driven me places so  I'm pretty good with directions but I'd rather for sure know where I'm going.
So I don't really like-  and I've really only stayed in Northwest  and like some parts of Northeast,  so.
Actually April sixth will be a full year  since I got my license.
Yes!
Cause I- I learned how to drive on a stick shift  cause all my parents drive is stick shifts.
And then the car that my parents were gonna give me is a stick shift.
So that was like,  the first hurdle,  learning how to drive that .
And it's funny cause, um,  I actually took the test once before and failed.
Um,  and that was in a manual car.
Thank you .
Yeah.
Yeah I know.
Um,  not really.
I don't-  I don't feel that way.
Cause like I know-  I know a lot of stuff about different parts of DC  because of my dad.
He's- he's old,  and he's been out here for a long time.
Well my dad's like sixty seven.
So  I just like listen to him talk about the city  but I don't necessar- and like,  I'm not a very adventurous person.
I like to stay at home.
So I don't really go out a lot.
I don't- I don't feel the need to.
Um,  I guess just like,   when-  when my brother was first born,  he went to this night club called Faces a lot.
Do you know where that is?
I think it's on Georgia Avenue,  um,  which isn't very helpful.
I can't- uh- yeah.
It is .
Um, but he used to go to that night club a lot, and my mom th- and like  my brother was seven when  my dad met my mom.
And so  my mom would take care of my brother  when my dad would go out to this night club  and like,  my mom would tell me like,  you know, you're dad like,  he didn't really like,  check to see if RD-NAME-2, my brother-  He didn't check to see if RD-SCHOOL-2 was doing his homework, and he was like, failing school when I met  your father, and all this stuff.
And I just think it's weird to think about my dad as like this social person,  who was going out to night clubs and stuff.
Because who he is now I guess is like completely different.
Um, he doesn't have very many friends  cause either they've died  or he- Yeah I know.
He has really old friends  cause he's really old .
But like, um,  yeah, he doesn't really like a lot of people.
So just thinking about him being social  is very funny.
And he took a gap year  between,  uh,  starting a- Cause he- he went to Howard  and then eventually Georgia Tech.
He took a gap year between graduating from high school and going to Howard,  and he just tells me he has interesting stories but he won't tell me what they are.
I mean yeah cause  I don't really think he likes talking about how he grew up.
Cause he was poor.
And then his mom died when he was like, in his twenties and  him and his brother don't have a good relationship.
I guess he just likes how his life is now.
Like for him, he's made it in life cause he never thought  he'd be a- doing the things he does  and like living where he live- where we live now.
Um,  so I think he just likes life now  compared to how it was.
I think for my dad just  being able to  pay for things  cause like money was such a big issue for him growing up,  the fact that like,  he really wants my sister and I to graduate debt free from college and like,  the way it's going now I am gonna graduate debt free.
I'm really grateful about that, um, so I guess for him just  the fact that he's like,  present  cause like he didn't know his dad.
Um,  so  he just thinks  the fact that he's around  and paying for stuff,  he's like,  made it.
But I think like,  as a father and a husband it's way deeper than that.
Um,  you actually have to be like emotionally present and like,  more involved.
It's not just about like,  dropping us off places and picking us up.
It's like,  actually  talking to us about our days and like,  my dad's like-    He's a gemini  so like he can be nice but he can also be very mean.
And like,  he yells a lot  and so like, my sister and I don't like interacting with him a lot.
Like we're more- we're closer with our mom  just cause like,  our mom's a scorpio.
She's nicer.
I'm also a scorpio, so we al- We're always on the same page.
Um,  and like,  she's more like a  calm person.
My dad's-  has a temper.
That has nothing to do with  success  but-  Sorry.
Um,  I don't know what success is for me.
I'll figure that out.
I don't think I'm-  I mean-  I don't know.
I don't know.
Mm,  uh,  I don't really know  because like,  I don't think my mom would consider  where she is in life right now successful just because  she's still struggling.
Like,  um,  so  with architecture you can practice being an architect without being a registered architect  but if you're a registered architect you can get higher paying jobs.
And my mom's been trying to get registered  for like ever but because she had my sister and I  it's been harder for her cause you have to take like  a total of like ten tests.
You have to actually pass those tests but like she doesn't have time to study because she was taking care of us  or she was taking care of her parents.
And she's been taking care of her parents since she was twelve.
And she's like,  fifty two now  so she's just tired.
And so I don't think she's like  very happy  with  where she's at right now.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Yeah.
I mean  I- my mom  doesn't really care about like, m-  material stuff.
My dad's more into material things like he likes looking good.
He gets like two thousand dollar custom made suits  and, um, that's like looking good is really important to him but like my mom couldn't care less about how she looks.
Um,  yeah.
No.
He's very selfish.
Mm-hm.
No.
I mean well they just- Like my parents don't care- They don't care about p- like my dad doesn't care about Christmas.
Like literally, he said to me, I don't give a shit about Christmas   cause like presents and stuff,  that just wasn't  the concern when he was growing up and like,  my mom,  her family  is kind of crazy.
So like  growing up  her main concern was taking care of everything because her mother  became bipolar when she was twelve so she's had to take care of everything and like, because my m-  my grandma became bipolar,  my grandfather started drinking.
So he was addicted to alcohol for awhile and then we think that's what like,  made him become-  Like  it  messed with him so much that  he started getting dementia and now Alzheimer's.
And then like,  her brother is no help  because like  it's not his fault he's schizophrenic but like  he's just no help  because of that.
So it's all been on her so she doesn't really care about like,  presents and stuff.
She wants to make- she likes to make sure that like  my sister and I when we were little we had  like good Christmases.
Just that we were like happy but like,  my sister and I don't really care about l-  I guess because of that we don't-  my sister and I don't care about like,  getting the most presents and stuff on Christmas and like, on our birthdays.
Mm,  um,  I guess.
Like  we go to dinner on people's birthdays but I feel like everybody does that .
Um- Okay.
So yeah we go to dinner for everyone's birthday.
Um- Yeah.
I specifically like  my birthday and my mom's birthday cause we're three days apa- or two days apart.
It's a fun time.
And we're both scorpios.
I like it.
Two days after.
Yeah.
So- Well so my mom- We always go to Cactus Cantina.
Um,  that's like,  our favorite restaurant.
It is so good.
And my brother used to work there, like right when he got-  right when he got out of college and didn't have a job, that was like, his job.
It's so good.
Um,    my- my mom and my sister make fun of me cause like,  out of my sister and I, I guess I'm like-  They call me high maintenance, which I resent.
I feel like that is  incorrect.
But like, I guess I'm like,  bougier.
Like  I'm- I'm just like my dad.
Like we like really fancy restaurants .
And like, we either go big  or we go home.
Like,   for our birthdays,  you know the Capitol Grille?
Yeah we like to go there and it's like,  not very  affordable.
But  it's our birthday so we do it anyway.
Yeah.
My sister just s-  any- Like  one year, we went to, um, Chipotle  for my sister.
Yeah.
Yeah my dad, he's so fake.
He's like, I wanna go with the house.
Like whatever you all want to eat but then when we would tell him like-  Cause there's sometimes where I like-  Cause like  I resent that they call me high maintenance cause like, sure I'd love to go to the Capitol Grille all the time but I also  could eat at McDonald's and like, get a fish fillet and be content with life.
Or like Red Lobster.
But Red Lobster is like a big issue in our house just because like  my mom, my sister and I love it, but like,  my dad,  first of all, like, he's allergic to shellfish so  he doesn't like going there.
But they have options for him  but even that, like, he does not wanna eat there.
So he'll be like, oh yeah, like I'll go wherever you guys wanna go.
And then when we tell him,  he's like, no I don't really wanna do that,  so.
Yeah.
He'd rather like,  r- invest in like,  high quality things.
And that applies to like,  material things also  like,   my mom will have like,  shoes like  sh- worn out shoes  that she probably shouldn't be wearing anymore but she just wears them because they're there.
And like, she doesn't care  but my dad is like,  if like  his dress shoes get like, the smallest like  mark on them or like scuff,  he takes them to his shoe guy  and gets them shined and stuff.
And he's like,  really into that.
Um,  and like he doesn't like shopping at like stores like, uh,  uh, you know, like TJ Maxx and stuff   but my mom loves TJ Maxx.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um,  it's just been weird for me like trying to make friends because  a lot of the,  uh, the m- a lot of the black students here that I've encountered  they're in the Georgetown Scholarship Program  and so like,  and- and I'm not  but I still get some type of assistance from the school.
So like when I was a freshman,  I noticed that it was like,  harder for me to like,  become friends with people in the pro- the Scholarship Program,  um,  just because I guess they made assumptions about me because I wasn't in the p-  program with them  that like I had all this money  when that's not necessarily true.
Um,  but in terms of being in school with like a bunch of rich people,  I've been used to that since  middle school cause RD-SCHOOL-3  was just a bunch of rich people.
Um,  yeah.
I notice  way more white people in like, Petworth- the Petworth area.
Cause I went to- to like kindergarten over there, um,  and it was-  it's just way different now  and like the types of stores that they're building in Petworth  like it's a complete  like mismatch to how I remember Petworth,  um, when I was in kindergarten.
Um,  it's just like old black people.
There's like some young white families but it's not a lot.
I think  like the people have  the black families that live there, they've just been passing down their houses and like saving them for their kids, which is why it's been able to stay mostly black.
Um,  cause like even the house we bought  that was  a family's house and the siblings just didn't want it anymore.
It- cause it was their parents' house but their parents had died so they didn't feel like they needed it anymore.
Um,  but yeah.
My neighborhood's  s- mostly  black people.
Honestly, no.
I mean  just because  the houses will probably s- remain s- with the family.
Like even my brother has said like,  when our parents pass,  we're keeping this house.
I'm like, okay yeah, sounds good.
Um,  I don't really see my neighborhood changing too much.
Mm-hm.
So I went to a go go once .
I don't know if it was like an authentic go go because it was- You know Sidwell?
It was the- Yeah.
All my-  all my black friends were like, you have to go.
So I went,  and I was like, I'm not having fun.
But I don't like parties or crowds  so  I just shouldn't have been there in the first place.
But it was just like,  it was so-  it was just really noisy to me.
And it was hot.
I just did not- I wasn't having fun.
Um,  but like i- it was fine.
Like I'm glad I did it,  um,    but  yeah.
I- like I like Chuck Brown.
That's about the only go go   I like.
And that's just because of my parents.
I- I feel that way too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah,  I feel like I'm  really mature I guess.
Like I'm I'm really ready to graduate.
Like I don't wanna be here anymore.
I'm not really having fun here.
Yeah.
It's-  I've had like a really hard time making friends and like keeping friendships,  and it's really- been really weird for me because  in high school and middle school I had like all the friends in the world,  and I was really popular,  but here,  I've just had a harder time  making like meaningful connections  and like,  I don't have a best friend here  which is why I go home so often.
Cause my best friend's at my house, my sister.
Um,  I feel like-  So the first mistake I made was when I was a freshman.
I applied to the Living Well Community  in VCW so that I could have a bathroom in my room.
But like that cut me off from like, everyone else  cause I was like the only black girl on my floor  and like a lot of people  especially in my building, you made friends with the people that were on your floor.
And so I wasn't really connecting with the other people on my floor except for like the one Indian girl I lived with and we're still friends today.
But like,  so that was  mistake never one.
And then I guess just like  I've always struggled  with like-  Well not- not even always, but like,  being like, black enough.
Some people  tell me that I'm not.
So like,  I don't really wanna like,  encounter that cause if I try to become friends with someone and they tell- and they reject me cause I'm black- not black enough to them  I just don't wanna deal with that.
So like,  that's also  been what's stopping me in putting myself out there.
But like even  I'm in BSA and like,  I guess I'd- I'd say I'm friends with the board members but like  none of them are like my best friends.
I don't know!
Like,  just I- I don't know.
Like people  tell me I talk white and stuff and that like I'm an Oreo.
And    I don't know.
Like  cause there's no one way of being black  in my opinion.
So I don't see like,  why people are saying that to me.
I don't know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I don't know .
Yeah.
Well no cause  I-   Well  I don't know.
Yeah.
I j- Yeah.
I just think I'm like-  I just feel like,  I'm not like a partier,  and that's how like the black community connects here.
And I j- I would rather not go to a party ever.
Um,  so like I don't- they don't see me out and stuff  so like-  Sorry, what was your question?
Oh.
Like yeah it's authentic  with- when I'm with BSA  just because like those are the people I know well  and they know me well  but like  people have already came in with like established friend- friend groups.
So it's kind of hard to like,  enter those  late into the game.
Um, yeah.
No so like one girl I know here, we went to elementary school together.
And like,  I don't think she remembers who I am.
But like I know her.
And then  three other girls, we went to middle school together.
Two of them I-  like we see each other and we pretend like we don't know each other,  um, cause like,    just  RD-SCHOOL-3 culture.
I'd rather not hang out with them.
But one of them  we were best friends in middle school  and like I hang out with her but, um,  she's like  in Blue and Gray,  a group that gives tours and then she's also in  Gr- the Grace Notes,  which is one of the a capella groups.
So she's always with them.
Yeah.
Well  also  all of the people I've been talking about are white.
Yeah.
Um,  yeah.
Plus I like,  cause, um,    all-  like my mom, my dad, my brother and my  sister in law all went to Howard.
So I feel like this pressure to have black friends.
So and like,  I don't actively seek out white friends but like  that's also  cause like I feel like I can't really connect to them  as well as I can to like  black girls on campus.
No.
Yeah that's all I do.
It is a lot.
I'm tired.
Yeah I can't wait .
Yeah.
They're fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
I've never had it, but I don't like sauces.
But my sister's had it and she said it was great.
Yeah I mean like I- I wanna try it  because she said it was good so like I trust her.
So one day I'll try it.