Benning Road,  of Southeast.
Man, you know, they- so a lot of people call it the hood,  you know, the ghetto, but  I call it home.
Call it home.
You know, it's like, we- Cau- cause it's not really a y- a, you know, a neighborhood, it's more so a community, you know.
Uh, uh, you know,  it's-  it was my people, we all people, we all, you know, family.
And that's what's it all- that's what it's about.
I mean- I'm twenty-four.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, you know, I just- I'm- uh, I'm a little under the weather right now so please excuse me or whatnot, but.
Like I said man, it's just- you know, it's just a sight to see, you know, when you-  You just gotta come around, you know, it's a vibe, you know.
It's just-  I can't even call it man.
Correct.
It was a house.
Nah yeah I mean, it's a house.
Yeah.
Nah, Benning Road.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, words like, back in the day words it was more so like, what up dog, or, you know-  Uh,    fam that was back in the day, man.
Uh, like, dog, I know for sure dog.
I can't even explain, but, uh, I know from  back then to now it's just things has changed from dog to Joe to,  you know, now people saying cuz and  Mo.
And it's just like, you know, what's relevant I guess.
Mo is like, what up Mo?
Like, what up, you know,  Mo or cuz.
OT, you know,  for old timer.
But, uh,  it's a- it's a lot of- lot of phrases out here, you know, it's just like-  Man, my man he told me, he said something yesterday, I ain't know what he was talking about, but  he was basically talking about he had a lot of it, and I was just like, alright man what- It was just crazy, I was just like, man what are you talking about?
Yeah, nah he- he said something, I was just like, man what are you talking about?
Like it was something new to me.
And he was just like, man yeah, I just got a lot of it.
I was like, oh okay, aight well you just coulda said that, you know what I mean.
I mean, you know, I don't use that on my, you know, daily vocabulary but, you know, I- like I said man, it just like- you know, it's in the moment.
I don't think none of it's gonna last.
Only the good stuff last.
Right now I'm just self employed,  I do landscaping,  you know.
Correct.
That's correct.
RD-WORK-7 Well, you know, as a young boy, you know, that's the first dollar I made.
So I told myself,  I wanna put a name to it.
Yeah, I would say I'm just starting.
You know, I'm more so residential than commercial but, you know.
Slowly but surely.
Right, houses, apartments, you- I mean, not apartments, townhouses.
Um, you know,  some things that I can manage, you know, like I said I'm just starting, I don't really have the big  equipment, you know, to get the, you know, big jobs done, but  like I say, you know,  residential for right now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, they got that.
Right.
You know, like I said, I, you know, just gotta pace myself and, you know, slowly but surely.
You know, I'm'a get the job done.
It's like,  you know, I try to do work twenty-four, you know,  three sixty-five, all year round.
So I do landscaping in the summer,  snow  in the winter,  you know.
Try to get you, you know, gutters and everything.
You know, I do it all.
I guess you could call it a enterprise, you know what I mean.
Right.
Yeah I got a older sister and a twin brother, identical twin brother.
Correct.
Just like me, man, you know.
You know, you ask who's who I'm not gonna tell you but, you know.
I mean, it's the best relationship, I mean that's the  like that's a good relationship.
And it's like, m- only me and him cause like it- we- just it's- it's that one  relationship that a lot of people can't relate to.
It's like-  It's like I can't even put it in words but it's just like something rare.
And I feel like it's a blessing- strong bond, you know what I mean.
Only, you know,  us can see really eye to eye, understand what's going on and, you know-  you know,  brotherly love I guess.
Yeah like it- it's true like, you know what I'm saying, I might be thinking something and he might just say it.
It be crazy.
Like I might be- you know, my might,  uh, be thinking about a song lyrics or whatever and then my brother just might start just  rapping and stuff, I'm like, damn I was just thinking the same thing.
You know what I mean, it be crazy.
Right now he's in school, he trying to become a, uh, registered nurse.
He's going to- uh,  I don't even know what school he going to.
It's-  I know he was going to PG for his medical assistant, and then he supposed to be going to school, uh, I think in the fall for something.
But I know, like I say, for R.N.
I'm not sure what school.
I'm more so I guess, uh,  day and he's more so night, you know what I mean.
And it's like,  you rarely see us together  but when you do,  it's a celebration, you know.
Uh, well, I never knew my father,  and my mom she passed two thousand fourteen.
Um,  She was- you know, she did hair and whatnot.
.
Right.
Right, uh, it was a good relationship, you know, um, you know, she was always there for me, you know, that-  Yeah I don't know.
Yeah, you know, that tough love for real, you know what I'm saying.
I never- I was about to say I never understood like what she was saying or what she was- you know, like what she trying to- what was sh- the point she was trying to get across until like, later, you know what I'm saying, which is ?.
Oh okay, now I get it.
No I'm single, but  I know the main thing she told me and showed me was like family first,  you know what I mean.
Like regardless of  what the situation is or what needs to be done, it's no- You know, family's first and, you know, just gotta get the job done and,  you know, priorities, and  basically, you know, just, you know,  leave her- paddle her legacy to me, you know.
And just like,  you know,  fulfill her shoes basically.
Yeah me and my brother, and sister, older sister.
Nah I got a older sister, yeah, yeah, yeah.
RD-NAME-3.
By four years.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Right, right, right, right, right.
Right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course, you know,  like,  especially like growing up it used to get to me a lot cause it was just like, you know, growing up, go to school, first day of school whatever,  people used to be like- or the teacher'd be like yeah, you know, what did you and your father do or whatever.
Just be like, damn I'm blown out, you know what I'm saying.
But at the same time it was just like,  you know, like I heard stories about a dude that was just like, damn, like, you know, I don't even have pictures to see or, you know, like-  like damn I got his nose or something like that.
But it just like,  the stories that I heard from him just like, you know,  he a stand up guy, you know, I'll buy that for a dollar, you know what I mean.
So, you know, it is what it is.
Uh, nah, I  I got a small, you know, intermediate family, like, you know, just, you know, brother, sister,  grandmother, two nieces,  and a uncle, but that's it.
So, like I say it's like a real small family like up here in DC.
And then like everybody else that was like,  you know, great uncles and everybody like that, they're like- it's down south, so.
It's like I don't never see them, I haven't really met them.
But I know I got,  you know, relatives down south.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh, I mean, um, yeah.
I mean, the main thing for me was like always helping her in the kitchen, you know what I'm saying, like us cooking and, you know,  that was the main thing.
And especially like-  like her favorite dish was, uh, macaroni and cheese.
And we'd just like-  I feel like-  I felt like it was tight like, you know what I'm saying, I felt like I knew her little secret and everything, like yeah, you lunch like, you know, you-  Like I said, like- like I said everything happen for a reason, just like, you know.
Sooner or later she had to pass the torch.
And it just like, you know, like yeah, you know, I might as well, you know,  dip and dab.
And so just like  what I- like I said man what's understood ain't gotta be explained, big dog, you know.
I mean, you know, like you lunch, like, you know, like you lunch, don't lunch, you know, like, I mean, you know, I can't even explain it.
It's just like-  like you lunch, like you wouldn't even know, like  like you lunch, like you need to- like, you need to- you need to-  Like I'm lunching now, like you lunch-  Now I'm lunching, you know what I'm saying.
You got me on the spot lunching, you know what I'm saying, front street.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, see, like I said it's like a neighborhood thing.
It's like m- it's like, you know, like, you lunch, like it's like- it's not mainstream, it's basically like- like I said, our neighborhood lingo and whatnot.
And it's like,  you lunch it's like-  like, you need to get hip or you need to- you know, you like-  I can't even explain it, man.
Like you lunching, like you lunch, like,  Aight, man, you lunch, like, you lunch, like that's all I gotta say, you lunch.
You're lunching.
Yeah the cooking.
That's   I can't tell you all that, man, you know if I c- uh, if I tell you I gotta kill you and, you know, I don't wanna do it like that.
You know, I could be honest with you player, you know.