I watch it during the playoffs,  but  not like- I used to watch it regularly.
I don't-  I don't watch it like I used to.
Um,    part of the difference is is that the-  the- the change in-  in college basketball I think has affected,  um,  how certainly I view professional basketball.
So,  um,  in college  and  after college,  um,  because  you sort of follow people's careers  in college because they were in college for four years,  um,  you felt like you sort of had a connection with them and you knew them,  And when they went- Then,  graduated college or f- completed their college years and went to the pros,  you felt like you had a connection and you f-  followed them through their  pro career.
And that for me was some of the attraction to watching  the  pro  basketball because  there were people that I  felt like I knew, certainly knew of,  uh,  had watched them in college,  and  who I'm now interested in watching them progress and play in the pros and I would follow  pro basketball more closely because of that.
I don't know who these  pro players are anymore because  you don't-  They're- they're one and done in college,  and then they're in the pros and you hear their name and you go,  well who was that and where did they come from?
And so, I- I- I don't  follow  it like I-  like I used to and  I-  I'd sort of know the- the- the names were household names.
Um,  but  when you start  going past some of them and you ask me about so and so,  I don't know who that is,  and who they play for or- or  any of that.
So I don't- I don't follow it as- as much as I used to, and  even with college now, I mean, I- I'll- I'll follow  the- the, um,  March Madness.
But i- during the season- the season is still so long,  there's so many games, it's hard to keep up with them.
And there are- there are a lot of teams and there are a lot of players, and,  you know, they- they-  they come and go so quickly, you just can't keep up with them and  so you don't have the opportunity to sort of  become a fan of either a particular player or a particular team,  um, in the way that we used to-  used to do that.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm not a fan of musicals.
I've never really sort of been a fan of musicals.
Every now and then, I- I hate- I know I- I- I listened to that and I'm like- and I was thinking to myself, did I really say that like that?
Oh I guess- I guess I did.
And I- and I don't think that I've become-  I'm- I'm more tolerant of them.
And then some of them I- I've actually come to enjoy.
So I w- I don't say that I hate them.
I'm- I'm probably more selective about which ones I- I find interesting and I'm interested in seeing.
But I- I- I do not hate musicals.
Um- I think it was Fela.
Fela?
Uh- Wasn't it called Fela?
What was that musical called?
I thought it was Fela.
I can't remember the name of it.
Over here at the-  here in-  it was playing-  it was playing around the country but it was playing at the theater right up here, seventh and-  across from the Verizon Center.
No, it was- it's at the theater but it's-  it was not a Shakespeare No.
No, it wasn't a Shakespeare play.
It was- I thought it was called Fela.
It was actually at the Shakespeare Theater.
Yeah, yeah.
That was one I really enjoyed.
Um, and there- there have been a few ones I can't remember.
I haven't been to the theater in awhile.
But there were a few others that I've- I've really enjoyed, and so  from time to time I- I-  I-  you know.
There's- there- from time to time I do like go go music.
From time to time,  and some of them- I certainly enjoyed Chuck Brown.
And- and- and- and Rare Essence and  some of the traditional kind of go go music cause it was-  I mean I- I-  I was sort of-  I was grown then, I wasn't part of the-  the go go crowds I was sort of past that  but it was, you know- it was- it was  DC music.
You know?
And so,  um,  some of it I like.
Gosh, on the radio.
On the radio.
I was-  No, go go came after I was out of high school.
We didn't have go go then.
I was- I-  I was g- gone and came- I had gone and come back, yeah.
Yeah, go go- S- late s- late seventies, right.
That's right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No I was not.
No, no I was not.
I'm n- Both.
I mean, I- I like it because- I like some of it because I like it,  and then, you know,  th- that that I like is usually  more traditional  and- and more  characteristic of  wh- how it started here in DC and what it was all about.
Yeah.
They w- they were- they were- they were local, and they were, you know- they were a part of that  original  development of- of- of go go.
They were part of one of the original groups.
I- I don't- I don't know cause I'm not that- I'm- I'm- I'm not that in tune to all of that.
Um,  I just remember that it was  very  distinctive  certainly when it first came out.
Um,  and  when people talked about go go, you knew that  there was that DC connection,  which, um,  you know, there's a- there's a element of pride there, you know.
It's- it's a- we- we own that.
I am.
I am.
W- W- Washington is a-    If you step away from  the world view of DC,  the  nation's capital,  the  political center of-  of the- of the world,  in some ways.
And you-  you look at  the city  and  what it was like,  what it meant  for black people,  it's special.
You-  if you- if you live and work here in DC,  and  you  leave and go some place else,  and- and I'm sure this has happened to you,  and you- you go to another city,  and you look around and the first thing you say is  where are all the black people and where are all the black professionals?
We- we've-  DC is just so unique in that way, and we take it for granted  until you go away  and you look around  and you see what's missing.
I mean  this is an incredible- it's been an incredible place  for, um,  the- the-  professional growth and development for all sorts of people,  but especially for black people.
We've got a huge black- Well, had and it's- it's-  to some degree still have  a huge black middle class  here.
There have been all kinds of opportunities.
People have been able to succeed in life and  do all kinds of things  in- in large part because the government was willing to  hire black people and give people an opportunity and,  you know.
We- we  had a strong city government at the- at- for a long time  and, um,  there was a- there was a place where, uh, you could find your niche in-  in politics and-  and have an impact and  just do all kinds of-  all kinds of things  and so  absolutely I'm a proud Washingtonian.
Now what I can say to you is I worry about my city.
Because it is changing  and I'm not so sure  that all the changes  are for the-  for the best.
That means that  DC  used to be  a warm  and friendly  city.
You walk down the street,  everybody speaks.
You greet everybody.
You make contact.
You say hello.
You  are polite,  you're courteous.
Um,  it-  there w-  there was-  DC is south of the Mason Dixon Line,  and  there was a culture.
Some of the best  parts of  the Southern culture  had manifested themselves and become a part of the culture in DC.
We've lost that.
We're losing that.
It's become cold.
People are rude.
People are callous.
People are indifferent.
Um, people don't speak.
You- you- you- you know all your- you used to- you grow up and you know all your neighbors.
And  everybody helped out and  there was just a warmth and- and sense of camaraderie  and pride and unity  that  I remember  growing up here  that I think is  being  eroded  not so slowly.
Um,  you know, you had  people here who  couldn't wait to get here  because  th- they  recognizably that there was opportunity  and if they worked hard, they could-  they could succeed  and- and do well and grow and develop and  there were all kinds of opportunities here and  all of that.
And  I don't think that there's that sense of-  of hope  that sense of, um,    being able to be part of something.
I think th- the- the view of the city is a lot more transient.
There- people here are a lot more transient.
Um,  there- there  there are people here who  don't come in with a- an understanding or appreciation  of the, um-  what was  sort of the culture of the city.
And I- I think that's-  t- to lose that  is, um,  to lose some of what was the best part of the city.