March twenty third, nineteen fifty.
Aries.
Mm.
On the cusp.
Mm.
Winston Salem, North Carolina.
In nineteen fifty f- six- fifty five.
Fifty five, yes, cause I was five.
Lincoln Park.
Mm-hm.
It's in um, Northeast,  on the Northeast side of Lincoln Park.
That's my-  the longest time, but we moved around a lot, and we were there the longest.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Um,  you mean within DC?
I've lived in every  section of city,  every-  Northeast, Southeast, Southwest, Northwest,  and um- Okay.
Um- uh- after- Especially after my father passed in nineteen sixty,  and we moved quite a bit.
Um,  then um,  I lived in Northwest with my mom and it was-  and my stepdad, and then after I graduated,  then I moved to Maryland.
I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3 High School, in uh, s- nineteen sixty eight.
Then I did two years at RD-SCHOOL-2 University,  and  that's it.
I was a Voice major.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
I ha- I can't now.
I've had surgery that  t- messed up my voice, so I'm not able to sing now, but  I did some singing back in my day.
Yes, yes.
I was administrative assistant in um, DC public schools,  so.
He was born in Pensacola, Florida.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And Mom was in the- from Waycross, Georgia.
Uh.
Really?
Okay.
Oh, well that's good.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay.
That's r- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
He was a preacher.
Yup.
His- his work though was he was a- uh, in the cleaning business.
Mm-hm.
She was a house m-  mother at- a stayed at home mother.
Well, I think it was just for  um,  to try to do better.
It-  have a better life,  you know?
Um,  he w- Like I said, he was a  minister that did a lot of traveling and preaching.
Like Evangelistic  minister.
And so he did a lot of preaching and so-  I think my mom got tired of him being gone so much, so we kind of- Yeah.
Yeah.
And so we came here and um,  lived with my aunt and uncle.
Well he was a preacher too,   so  we all lived in- in Northwest DC, up off of Georgia Avenue.
And uh,  was my sister,  RD-NAME-2, my younger-  my younger brother,  RD-NAME-2,  and my mother and father,  so.
In one house.
Mm-hm.
All- I didn't realize it, no, cause  uh, it was a good size house.
It was on Crittenden Street in Northwest.
And um,  uh-  I don't even remember what room I was in, but I do remember that  there was a big  living uh, room.
It kind of had it like the french doors between that and the dining area,  and so it was always  open and  airy and  f- f-  It was fun.
That's true.
That is true.
I don't remember the children that much.
Um,  I just remember my brother and I and my um-  my cous- my uh, nephew-  my  s-  What is it?
My ch-  sister's children.
That'd be my cousins.
My- huh?
Yeah, w-  Nieces and m- Yeah.
There you go.
I was tryna find that word.
Yeah, they would come over, and uh, we were all kind of close in age, so  I remember playing with them.
I don't remember  kids in the neighborhood.
But I do remember that w- the- the houses were um,  like,  connected.
You could  stand on your porch and see down to other porches.
That kind of neighborhood,  houses.
And uh,  I don't remember much else about that.
Mm-hm.
It's still there.
Mm.
No, it's- it's a very vibrant neighborhood.
It's up in the Petworth neighborhood.
And uh,  it was considered  k- s- then was kind of like a  good area.
You know, cause it's kind of going toward up in Northwest.
So that was considered a decent area to live in.
Mm-hm, a little further up.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Oh yes.
Oh- I have-  Mm-hm.
I haven't uh- Last time I went through there,  the Metro was there.
And uh, it's- it's really changed  from when I lived in that area.
Okay, next we went to um,  Perry Place  off of Fourteenth Street,  which was like,  in that- You know, that- Going up that way it was like,  alphabets, that's how I remember the area.
So, Perry Place was in the alphabet s- s- alphabet before Crittenden,  so we're d- we're down a little further into- toward town.
And um,  we lived in the house of this old preacher.
He was old,  creepy kind of person .
And he-   His name was Reverend Flood.
I'll never forget it.
And uh, we- we lived there  upstairs.
Um,  it was enough room so my mother, my father, my  sister and my s- younger brother.
Well that's where  our younger brother passed away.
He was five  at the time.
Which I still don't, to this day- don't know what he died of.
He just died as far as I always knew.
He just died.
And  took a toll on my dad.
He was not  good after that.
Right.
Everybody else was grown.
There were other children and ther- there was seven of us all total.
But we were the youngest, the- the three of us were the youngest.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I- I'm not sure how, but I'm- I'm assuming so.
Mm-hm.
Did he- No, he never pa- Yeah, just a minister, and he would go to different- different churches, um, and p- speak and preach and  t- teach.
I mean, he- he was-  My dad only went to third grade,  and-  but he was  so smart, so intelligent.
I mean, he had-  Universities wanted him to come and  teach classes.
Cause he never- He was just anointed.
He was anointed  preacher,  and he could  give that Word like nobody.
Mm, mm-hm.
I don't think I remember  what it was he talked about,  I just r-  I can see him right now.
I remember one time that  the Spirit hit him, and he just walked  kind of walked the pews, as they used to say.
You know, I remember- I can see him coming down out of the pulpit, and going-  I mean he could pre-  Oh he could just like, fire and just  work everybody up.
You know, he was just that kind of peo- I can see that.
I c- I don't remember exactly what it was he talked about, but I remember- I can see him  in the- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
That's right.
I have seen it.
I have seen it.
Um,  I've seen it in my son on occasion.
When he was preaching.
He can-    It's- it- it's a-  Sometime it give me the  quivers how he-  I can look at him and see my dad.
And um,    that's a awesome thing.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay-  Okay.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I agree.
Oh, Lord, yes.
He's got that dry sense of humor  that,  you know, he can make you laugh, and he's looking at you, and you falling out at something he said.
And my dad could do that from-  even did it at his sermons sometime.
I do remember that.
Yeah he could make- he- he-  He'd put humor in his messages, and that's the same thing RD-NAME-2 does.
It's humor in his messages.
But you get it.
It's real.
I mean  you know God is so- working with him.
Mm-hm.
Yeah he passed in nineteen sixty.
He uh-  he had a heart attack.
Um,  when we lived in Lincoln Park,  it was a-  one of those big old brownstone type houses  and  three floors.
And at one point,  our whole family lived in that house.
All of my brothers,  all- It was two brothers,  three sisters,  two sisters with all  three-  Each one had three kids,   they were there.
Um,  uh, my uncle and his wife,  my mother, my father and that-  We all lived in that uh- We loved-  Oh we had so much  great times in that house.
Just,  you know, just  being together.
Cooking that- He c- He-  He was a wonderful cook.
He-  Oh he could go in the refrigerator and j- just look and  pull stuff out and  be so good.
But he'd  tear that kitchen up when w- when he-  when he-  w-  When we finished eating, we knew  who was in the kitchen  cause it w-  flour on the floor, this and that.
He s- said, okay y'all get in here, clean up this kitchen.
He did- He had done all the damage, but we had to do the w- work cleaning it up.
But uh,  we- we- we had  parties in the basement.
You know, and he- he loved to dance, and  he was just-  Oh.
When he passed,  something went out of me.
I love- I just-  He was up here.
And so  it was hard,  but um,  those are- Some of the best memories were in that house.
Mm.
S- Yes, soon after he passed, and um, my- one of my older brothers helped  my mother, you know.
He s-  stepped in and s-  So we moved to  G Street in Southeast, which is over off of um,  Minnesota Avenue.
Over near that uh, Fort Dupont  Park.
Mm, over in that area.
And um,  that was a fun house.
It was big house and  a brother- One of my brothers and  my older-  two of my older sisters, my mother,  and me.
Yeah.
And we had fun in that house.
Um,  why we moved, I don't know.
I was a- I was-  When my father died I was ten, so when we left that house, I was  twelve.
So I- You know, I didn't know all the goings on and stuff.
I was still too young to  be-  but I  just know that  we moved, and when we were there, I went to um,  RD-SCHOOL-2.
Well when I was at- when we were at  Lincoln Park, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary School.
And uh-  um,  that's-  that's the biggest  chunk of school that I can remember.
I went there from third grade to sixth grade.
And then um,  on G Street I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, and that's where I  was promoted from, then  I went to junior high school.
So  by that time,  we moved to  um-  where was it?
N Street, Southwest.
I don't remember what that was near.
That was-  I don't have a whole lot of memories o- of that house except it was a-  a spooky house.
We all  thought it was haunted.
Yeah, cause it was-  it was kind of dark.
It was on the ground floor.
We did have upstairs bedrooms, yeah.
And but we could never  lock  the front door.
We don't know why.
We-  we just never could,  and it sold.
The day that we moved cause we didn't- we weren't there long,  and so the day we moved, we could lock the door.
And so-  And we was- you know, the- just weird little things were happening there, lights would come on and off and  stran- You know, so we said, well-  Well I guess  they said, we gotta get out of here.
We gonna go somewhere else.
Yeah.
And so I was- I was supposed to go to RD-SCHOOL-1- I did go to RD-SCHOOL-2 uh, Junior High School for like,  a month.
And then um,  I was um-  When we moved to- from S-  Southwest, we moved to  Potomac Avenue, Southeast.
Um,  over by DC General.
And  we were at the end of that street,  and um,  the DC morgue was at the-  that- at the end of the street.
Potomac Avenue, I think it was Eighteenth that went that fars.
And there was a cemetery behind our house .
It was-  But it was a beautiful row house,  and uh,  a nice-  in the inside was nice.
We had fun times there.
It was my m-  my mother, my sister RD-NAME-2, and then me  and her-  uh-  older brother's wife RD-NAME-2.
So it was just us.
And at that house, I went to um-  ended up going to RD-SCHOOL-1 Junior High School.
I loved that school.
I- It was a good school.
I liked the building.
It w- it- it-  it-  it was-  the-  It was something about being inside that school building.
It was just-  It was just a  good place to be.
It was a good feeling when I was in there.
And I did well in all- all of my classes.
I did well.
I liked my teachers.
And I met  um,  a lifelong friend.
We still friends,  and I was there at the seventh grade.
And she and I w- She was- She came- When I was in the ninth, she came near in the seventh.
And  um,  we became f- We still friends.
Her name's RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-3.
She's a minister now, and uh,  we- our b- birthdays are two days apart.
And we just like kindred spirits  type thing.
But uh- Not often, but when we do, it's- it's real.
You know?
I can't-  Oh yeah.
Yes indeed.
Cause back then we- we did get together  when um-  Let me back track a little bit.
Oh whoops.
Sorry, okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So let's see.
I'm gonna go back to when we were on Potomac Avenue.
Um,  I went to RD-SCHOOL-1 Junior High- Yes, I used to walk-  walk up uh,  Pennsylvania Avenue.
I  remember that street,  walking into RD-SCHOOL-1.
We used to step out of-  at lunch time, and go over to Eastern Market and    get   us potato chips out of this big barrel.
That was fun.
Um,  uh yeah.
So I met- When I met  my friend RD-NAME-3,  um, we w-  we had b-  I had-  My mother and I had joined this church.
Uh, Shiloh Baptist Church?
Mm-hm.
So  this was the uh- this was- I s- think I skipped a point,  but anyway, I'll go back.
But-  but  we had met  and uh- at Shiloh Baptist Church and  while I wa- while we were there,  we'd all discovered that we sang-  all of us sang.
We were in the youth choir and everything.
And so RD-NAME-3 and her sister  and  two-  uh, two other sets of sisters  and I.
We got together and formed a group called the Uniques.
And we sang-  we sang.
We were really good.
We were really good.
I mean we  traveled around and  went f-  to different churches and  were on the radio and-  But, um, we were together the  for like fourteen years.
Mm-hm.
And so  that was a highlight  of being at that church.
Shiloh, I learned n- a whole lot  being at Shiloh church,  learned a lot.
Um,  my singing  really grew up.
I kind of thought I might make a-  try to make a career out of it, but  Uh,  just the singing part I was good at.
But the other part of the music, the training, the-  the theory, the- all that stuff was too much for me.
I wasn't ready for all of that, and so uh,  I lost interest in it, and- and then I  dropped out.
And I just worked.
And uh,  I started RD-WORK-5,  and  that's where I retired from.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Yeah because um-  Let's see when he was three, I  put him in um,  day care.
And it was a church across the street from RD-SCHOOL-2.
It was RD-CHURCH-7.
And they had a outstanding program, and he learned a-  did so well there.
And so  when time put him to  come out of that program,  go to school,  um,  I talked to his teacher and- about the program that they had at RD-SCHOOL-2  with the tw- between the two places, and they  you know,  made  uh-  I had a- a kind of relationship with RD-CHURCH-4, so that  the kindergarten kids could come  to that school.
And so, I was working at  RD-WORK-1  Elementary School, which was like,  four or five blocks away from  um, RD-SCHOOL-2.
And I went in and talked-  Cause by this time,  we's living in Maryland.
And so I said, well, I kn- I- You know, working in school, and I knew about the residency and all of that stuff,  but I'd say, God,  hey I-  I can't send RD-NAME-2 just anywhere, now I got- You know, cause t- t- t- s-  t- He's my life.
He was my life.
So  I went and talked to the principal,  and I explained to him  you know, I worked near by.
And I would like  for him to be able to go there so i- I'd be close to him during the day and whatever.
So he was very kind, and he said, well yeah, okay,  we will work that out, and he did.
And RD-NAME-2 was able to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And so  that was the best thing I think coulda happened to him.
He- His- His pre-K teacher,  she was just great.
She uh- What was her name?
Miss  RD-NAME-1.
And she uh-  she loved RD-NAME-2, and th- they had a good  connection and  all- all of his teachers, uh, eve- even from-  from pre-K he said, you know, RD-NAME-2 is  good.
He  does all his work,  but he talks so much!
So, and he said, well  it's a wonder he sees kids that-  pre-K teacher.
But then the kindergarten teacher said-  she said, that RD-NAME-2,  he get all his work done,  then he all- Next thing, he's over there at that table, talking to somebody.
Or he's over at this table to he-  to helping somebody, talking to somebody.
And he can be doing his work, and still doing something over here.
So you know, he's still like that, and hm multitask.
I said, boy go sit down, do what you supposed to do.
But anyway, he did- he did well al-  through all the wa- all the way through, and um,  first grade was Miss  uh-  Oh Lord.
I can see her face.
I can't think of her name now.
But anyway, she was tough.
She loved RD-NAME-2 but she did not take no stuff off of him.
And so then sh- she turned out to be I think one of his favorite teachers.
Mm-hm.
That's right.
That's right.
And so, he came on up.
Let's see, second grade,  I can't remember her name.
She was a little white teacher.
She was  kind of scary like-  like-  you know, she was in the school with all these black t- p- p- people,  children.
She was-  didn't handle it too well, so she was gone after next year.
Third grade teacher was a Miss RD-NAME-2,  and that's where RD-NAME-2 really  blossomed.
And she was  strong.
She was tall, pretty young lady, and  he didn't like her at first.
And then sh- she kind of didn't like him.
And so you know, me, I'm up- I was always up there, you know.
His- didn't think some- He'd come home, he didn't like- oh, I was up there uh, getting it straight.
You know, I don't mess with my child.
I know.
So I went up there, and she wanted him  um,  to study for-  to- or to learn how to do the Martin Luther King speech for the  um, celebration that year.
And they bumped heads so much, and h- you know, well he studied and everything, and h-  he studied them lines and he got up there and  killed it.
I mean he was just  so good.
He- he j- He was a little short thing.
And uh, they had to stand him on a box at the podium  cause he's so short.
And so the-  the auditorium was full of people.
You know, how in between things they talk a little bit,  so he s-  got up  there,  ps- just got up on the box,  put his hands on the podium like this, and just looked.
It's like,  you know, he was the king up here.
y'all better pay attention to me.
And he waited  a lo- I know a good minute,  good- maybe a good minute and a half.
And people started, you know, what's going on?
And they saw him sitting there, so they got quiet, then he started out.
I say today my friends and  you know, he started that speech.
And he-  Oh man.
It was awesome.
It was so good.
He didn't miss a word,  inflections, everything.
It was perfect.
So  that j- got him going, so then,  from there, he did  speeches at  churches, at  other schools in the d- in the system, w-  called him, wanted him to do the speech.
He just-  everywhere, a church, at different churches, not just our church, but different churches.
And  so  that really got him um,  I think on his way to public speaking.
You know, and he  was not afraid.
He wasn't nervous.
He would get up there, and he wouldn't forget anything, and  I was just so proud of him.
And I,  you know- And I was a kind of  mother, I didn't miss  anything.
And whatever he had to do,  I made time to go  w- be with him and  I-  I-  I don't regret  not one minute.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Oh yes.
I enjoyed it.
Uh-huh.
Um,  My home room teacher was named RD-NAME-5, and I can see her now.
She was  nice young lady, had-  wore hair straight, and  she had big eyes.
And uh, sh-  I had her- She was my home room teacher all the way though high school.
Mm,  just something I don't know how they did that, but that's how that happened.
But um,  my favorite s-  I w- I was kind of leaning toward business so I- I took um-  I was really good at English and um-  I w- did pretty good at Math too.
Though but my favorite subject was En-  English.
And then uh, I got-  towards- sometimes um,  after my first year, I w-  I got into the um,  typing and  you know, all the stuff that could lead me into a  business  career.
Mm-hm.
And uh,  I was part of the um-  the  cheer- Uh, what was it called?
The Pep Club.
I was president of the Pep Club,  so we had the games and all, and we would just-  you know, be out there  doing our things.
Um,  I liked Chemistry, and I loved my Chemistry teacher.
Her name was uh,  Miss RD-NAME-3.
She like a fashion model, tall pretty lady.
She was very sweet  and very kind and  I did well in Chemistry.
I liked-  I like Chemistry.
I like Science too earlier.
That's been a good subject for me,  did pretty good in there.
And um,  My um-    I was not among-  I was not one of the pretty girls.
I always had  a issue with weight.
My weight  and I was short,  but  my personality was so-  I was always included in the-  in the in crowd.
If you wanna call it that, the in crowd.
And so, I was u- I was really popular,  and I would have th- little parties.
Um,  when um-  What was it- we lived on um-  Mm-  When I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, we lived on Ninth Street,  right down- right next door to Shiloh.
They- Shiloh owns some of those row houses there, and so-  Before we got there, now I got to back track, my mother married  my stepfather,    RD-NAME-4, that was his name.
And he lived in one of those homes, and so  that's where we moved to.
And I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 there, so I used to walk up,  um-  What was that street?
Thirteenth Street,  Northwest,  yeah,  and walk up that hill to RD-SCHOOL-3.
And uh-   The- big old hill.
Yup.
Yup, s- and so uh,  Yeah, I really liked  going to that school.
And I made good friends in the neighborhood.
I had a  real close friend around the corner and-  and um,  we used to walk together, it'd be about six of us walk-  we'd walk up that hill.
And um,  those were- those were good years, so I was-  And I would have- Oh I was gonna say, I would have  little parties.
Now we li- The place we lived was a little apartment, and I mean it was little.
It was just  like, me, my mother, my st-  and my stepfather.
And I would have parties in that place, and it would be like,  thirty kids in-  packed up in this little apartment.
And we would have a ball, and my stepfather, he would  be just as tickled cause I was home.
I was doing w- You know, doing it-  Well I was there doing it,  wasn't out in the streets somewhere he didn't know where I was, so it-  He would be happy about that.
But we'd have fun, and so  I was uh- When I think back on it, I say oh,  that's funny how I was  a part of the in crowd, but  I wasn't the girlfriend type  that the guys would be after, you know.
But  that was cool too.
So uh, I did well.
Like I said, I got the  school letters,  you know, um,  for-  for participating in different things and  certificates and  I did okay in high school.
I was in the Glee Club.
I was  uh,  pep ra- Yeah, with the Uniques in- in high school, yeah.
Cause we started there- When I went to Shiloh, I was fourteen,  and  I think we got together when- uh- two years after that, and so we- Like I say, we were together for like, fourteen years.
And um,  we traveled- We went around the city doing a lot of singing.
We got hooked up with some other  groups  that was singing and  we had a little name.
W-  People kn- Uh-hm.
Mm-hm.
We- we re- did really well and uh,  we just all grew up and everybody went their different ways.
Some uh, got married.
Um,  I got married-  When did I get married?
In nineteen seventy eight.
Ten years after my graduation.
And I married uh,  my husband RD-NAME-2.
So we were married thirty seven years,  and uh,  two years after we got married,  we had RD-NAME-2.
And uh- Huh?
Still married.
Yeah.
And uh,  I had RD-NAME-2 at  Sibley Hospital.
I'll never forget.
I had a  wonderful doctor.
And uh, I had RD-NAME-2 by C section, so I w-  I was in there for a little while.
I had a little-  complications.
I was in there for awhile, but  he was a g- And we came on home.
He was a good baby.
Didn't have m-  problems with him.
I remember one-  one thing.
I was-  we were sitting in a rocking chair in his room  n- after I fed him and stuff was-  I used to talk to him a lot.
I talked to him  b- before I had him.
You know, I'd sing to him,  talk to him.
So we-  This night- particular night, I was talking and he was just looking at me.
I was like, why is he looking at me like that?
And for about-  about fifteen minutes or so,  that boy just stared at me.
I got a little nervous.
I didn't why- I- or what that was about.
He finally stopped, but he did that.
I- I've never forget that.
I was just holding him in my arm.
So but-  And I never knew what that was about, but I never forget  that happened .
But we've always been  uh, super close.