Eleven twenty-five, two thousand.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Washington DC.
Petworth.
Mm, yes.
Majority of my life, yes.
I've lived in PG County  also.
Um,  Capitol Heights.
For about  I wanna say ten years.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm looking at Hampton, Howard,  Bowie,  Norfolk State.
I wanna major in political science with a minor in psychology.
I know.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Washington DC.
Washington DC.
Washington DC.
He has- He has his own cleaning business.
Very successful.
What do you call 'em?
Like-  like, commercial buildings, companies.
Mm-mm.
Emptying- House cleaning, yeah.
Basically yes.
Um,  RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-2  Cleaning.
So it's  RD-NAME-2, cause his last name is RD-NAME-2 and his first name is RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-3 Cleaning.
She works for the Boys and Girls Club of greater Washington.
I grew up- I grew up in Capitol Heights.
But I- everything I did was in the city.
So,  I grew up in Capitol Heights and I always had family so I always came in the city  t- for like, different reason like to go see family or to hang out with friends and stuff.
But Capitol Heights is just like where  I lived at.
And  I had also had friends and stuff out there but  this is where  I consider my  home base is DC.
Oh my m- my mom's side of the family, and my dad's side,  like my grandmother.
Um, my cousins.
My aunt and uncles, everybody lived in the city.
When my mother bought a house she moved out there.
She bought a house out in Maryland.
And then when I was born, that's where  she  already her residence where.
So that's where I lived.
Back  to city, yes.
Because we were noticing that  we were getting- my parents were getting older.
And my grandparents-  my grandfather passed away  on July third two thousand fourteen.
And   my grandmother didn't wanna sell the house so she wanted to keep it inside of the family.
And at that time we wanted to come back into the city.
So,  we moved in there and, um,  every since then we've been there.
Mm-mm, no she ha- she has her own- um,  she has- she wanted to be like on one level.
So it's like a senior citizen living.
And easy access and all that.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yes,  like a condo and stuff.
Mm-hm.
I played outside mostly like, growing up and stuff.
I-  I had like different friends.
So I'm very a outgoing person like,  I'm not the type of person that sit back.
I'm not shy at all.
And  always I'll- wherever I went I will always make friends or be a sociable person, so it wasn't easy for me-  it wasn't hard, I'm sorry.
It wasn't hard for me to go out  and like play with kids, I al- always had fun.
We'd like, play  like games like Manhunt,  tag.
We did sack races cause wherever I live-  where I lived, it was in the woods.
And it was like a community,  like houses built in the woods.
So we always had like,  landfills, tennis court, basketball courts.
Yeah.
So-  so it's like- Cause we lived in the woods so our houses were in the back of like, woods.
So we would  run, we would start in like one pecific place,  and one team had- well, one person  had to look for everybody on that team.
And normally it'll be like, fifteen of us.
And it would be like, two people that they would-  they would go out and look for us.
And we had this  whole development that was like about  I wanna say like,  a acre and  some-  some change.
So, you know, and they would have to look for us throughout the whole acre.
Right.
We would hide- we would hide in the- we would hide in trees, on the playground.
Yeah.
It-  it doesn't matter.
Cause everywhere I lived  families would always come  into town, so  it would range.
Like one time it was like,  ten of us.
It was like, twenty.
Most of us it's been thirty.
Yes.
I have two.
I have a brother and a sister.
Yes.
Yes.
Mm-hm, we would do that.
I alway- I had a bike and I had a scooter, an el- little electric scooter.
So I would be  in the neighborhood with that  mostly.
Mm-hm.
We were mostly the same age but it was always older-  s- a few older people.
Mm-hm, they were like, twelve, we were like, I wanna say eight.
Like, four years difference.
Since first grade.
Right.
So it- it's a school  that just was found I wanna say in two thousand four.
It hasn't been around that long.
Our- my class will be like, the fourth-  yeah, the fourth class to graduate from the RD-SCHOOL-3 high school part.
And it's a- it's a charter school.
It was originally found by RD-NAME-3.
I think she- she works for the mayor now.
I forgot what she does for the mayor.
And  yeah.
I do.
I would have to say sociology.
Because it- it-  it ha-  You think about-  when you think about sociology,  it  it has a lot to do with the mind and what you believe.
And I like how it's no right or wrong answer.
It's indifferent  but it's no right or wrong answers.
You ha- may have a person that think one way while you have another person that thinks another way.
And  like the different topics from-  from poverty to red lining to  segregation in classroom, segregation in education.
You have different topics that you can  get  people different opinions from different walks  of life.
And to come together and hear about it and share personal stories, I like that.
Mm-hm.
I internalize it.
And I could-  my thing is I can agree with you or I can disagree but you would never know  that-  you would never know that I don't- I don't-  I don't like your opinion because I would do it very respectfully.
And it's different when you-  you have to-  you have to say,  well I see what you're saying but then again,  it- it doesn't make sense but I'll-  I'll follow along with you.
Mm-hm.
Right.
No, I give them a like different view point mostly.
Mm-hm.
Right.
I wanna say  the last con- I have had  with one of my peers  it was about our  current president now which is Donald Trump.
And he's  thinks that Donald Trump is very illiterate, he thinks he doesn't know nothing.
And I told him, I was like,  you  can't-  you can't get mad at him.
First of all you have to think,  he's a business man.
I agree that some of the stuff that- majority,  let's say majority, not some but majority  of the stuff that he's doing is wrong  and it's gonna affect people lives,  people's household and people  work ability.
But also we have to think about- we have to hear him out, we have to come to like, a common ground.
Cause he's gonna be our president for the next four years.
Or might  be even eight.
So let's-  let's stop  pointing the finger where  we all should sit down and have a conversation  on what this side- this is what you believe and this is what I believe.
And let's try to have both our ideas coexist  so we can coexist.
That make sense?
So- He was like, I never thought of that.
He was like, RD-NAME-3 you make-  you make good points.
I said, yeah you have to-  you have to just go above and beyond.
You also have to think about your point about-  while the person over there is thinking about the same point if not different than you.
You have to-  you have to learn how to coexist.
Right.
I still state my reason, and if you don't like it, that's- that's-  that's your prerogative, that's your decision.
I don't-  I don't  shy them down or dumb them down, be like, oh,  you- you're not listening to me, you're not right anyway I just-  I state my thing,  state my reason,  and  if you don't like it,  or if you don't agree with it  I continue on.
Cause whatever- what-  mm, what you might find  and you may think that what I think is  um, dumb.
Another person might find  clarity in a question that they might have.
And look at it like, oh I didn't think of it like that.
While you over here, you judging me because you didn't like my-  you didn't like my opinion that I gave you  on something that may-  I may be wrong or you may be wrong.
You know what I'm saying?
Mm-hm.
Old man.
I've have.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I wanna say-  I wanna say when I was in fifth grade,  I r-  um,  we had a little speech  and I talked.
It's on YouTube.
And it was about Abraham Lincoln.
And I  went up there with my suit  and I said, da da da da da da.
And then once  I heard the applause  I was- I was out blown because as me I was like really shy.
I didn't wanna go up there first of all.
I didn't wanna talk.
My mom and dad, they was like, you should,  you'll- you'll blow it out the park.
And  all of my friends, they had bigger lines than me and my little four sentence  on a flip card  that I had to study.
They came up to me while they had like, paragraphs and I had like a  four sentences.
And they said, I think you did a good job, you did very well.
That was a big moment for me.
Cause after that I spoke in front of  hundreds of people.
Mm-hm, and my mom and dad was there.
Yes.
It's important to have somebody in your corner especially if somebody that cares about you and they know you.
And they know the kind of character that you have and they see  where you gonna go in life.
that's monumental.
Yes.
I know.
Yes.
But it- it-  it- it had its ups and downs.
It has its ups and downs because  you're at a point where  you're-  you're- you're still a child but you're put into a category  of pre-teens.
And  you-  you get- you graph more.
Within- between- between six, seven, and- and eighth grade you-  you start to realize in- internal things differently as  you were- than you- than you were a little kid.
And you start to think about  and interact with people differently or  watch different things or listen to different music  and stuff.
I think that's when you really become  the person that you later become in life.
In sixth grade, and seven and eighth, between them years those our most  crucial.
Um,  I lost- well,  I lost-  I lost a-  he was a administrator, he was the guy  at the school.
He actually committed suicide.
And  thinking about that  and stuff, and also when I lost my cousin  that was- that was very-  that was very monumental for me.
Both of those events they happened back to back.
He died  on a weekday, and then my cousin died the following weekend.
I was very sad because  when y- when you're y- when you're young  and stuff you don't-  you- you think that you have all the time in the world.
And to see somebody that's not that much older than you  by like four years pass in front of you,  you start to think about stuff and  you start to-  you start to act out a little bit.
You start to say, oh, I'm gonna go in the classroom but I'm not gonna do no work today cause I don't feel like it.
Or, today is not my day.
Or,  he keeps messing with me.
Or,  different- different little knick knacks and stuff.
And you just- it starts to-  it starts to play a role because  when you s- when the teachers hand y- hands out that paper, they don't say,  good morning, how you doing, they don't say none of that.
They just hand you  the paper and then they expect you to do your work.
But while you're sitting there thinking and stuff and you have a lot of stuff that's going on and happening around you.
You-  like your friends or  your grades are not where you want them to be.
You-  you think- while you have that test and you have that  twenty minutes to be quiet,  you think about  what's going on.
And you internalize it.
And then you   you- you may get mad, or you may storm out the classroom or you may just sit there and shut down.
Yeah.
I- I shut down, yes.
Storm out the classroom, no I've n- I've never did that.
No.
I-  I was talking  to somebody.
I would talk to my mom, or I would talk to people.
Because when you're around people,  or you know it's people that care about you,  you go to them for advice and they tell you that you can do it.
And when-  all you need is confidence, and when you have confidence that's the key to everything  in life.
Like you have to have confidence.
You have to have confidence to talk to the person and tell 'em what you  about to talk about or what you just did.
That's- that takes confidence.
And when somebody buil- helps build up that confidence that's in you,  you brush all of that under the rug and you keep going.
My family  and my friends.
And the Boys and Girls Club.
Cause they're always there.
It's- it goes above and beyond of the call of duty.
Even though that doesn't make sense, but  family can go above and beyond.
It's not one person in my family that I have gotten none advice from  on how to  do better  or what to do.
They- they teach me everything.
From our cousins  to my-  to my aunt and my uncles to my mom and my dad to my sister  to my,  um,  grandparents.
My friends, I'm around positive people, I don't like negative energy.
If I feel like  you  giving me negative energy I'm'a go the opposite way, cause I got a future ahead of me.
And I can't let none of that,  none of the outsiders or the negative energy distract me from getting to where I need to be.
And also the Boys and Girls Club because  to surround  adults  and to be around kids that have the same dream  as  you, to be great in life  or to be successful or-  or whatever you wanna do.
And to have  adults  behind you  that supports you, and  on Saturdays while you at home doing nothing they have activities planned for you to  go to like a  event, or learn how to be leaders.
Or take you on field trips or-  or go to events.
So it's different stuff that the Boys and Girls Club do.
And at the end of the day,  these people have lives and they sacrifice  their time  to make  sure that these kids have smile on their faces.
And I like that.
That's-  that's-  I don't think you can get- you can't get that at any  other school,  any  other-  any other place where kids  could be.
But you get that here at the Boys and Girls Club.
Mm-hm.
Becoming Torch Club president.
Mm-hm.
Well Torch Club is like a leadership program  for ages I wanna say twelve  to fourteen.
It's a leadership program for kids  and to-  to become a better leader within the community.
And you do different like- different like, community activities and stuff like that.
And, um, what made me wanna do it  because I feel-  I was always that type of kid if somebody was doing something  different,  I would-  I would-  I would try to think outside the box.
I would wanna be different, I don't wanna do the same thing that you're doing, or-  Let me- let me-  let me just think about it differently than you.
And at that time it wasn't nobody that wanted to do that,  to become a president.
They didn't wanna run.
But after I ran, everybody else wanted to start running.
But that's okay.
They wanted to, um-  I was-  I was like, I think I'm a good leader, even though I haven't been here for a while.
I'm new,  Everybody  likes me.
So I think I should run for president.
I have- I'll- I can talk.
I can advocate for people.
I can- I can plan events.
Yes.
Two times.
We help build each other.
Because I have a small group of friends.
I don't have-  I'm-  I wouldn't-  I'm known,  but I'm not like the star on the football team known.
I- I'm known, like if you asked a kid like there, oh that's RD-NAME-3, tha- oh yeah, you don't know RD-NAME-3?
But  when you're-  when you're around people,  you get to know who they are.
And you get to put 'em in a category of  okay,  I don't-  you okay,  I need to stay away from you, and  me and you, we good.
We gonna be like this.
And you- you select 'em out,  and you choose,  and  you guys talk about life and  you-  you build each other up.
You tell  each other what your problems is at home, or-  or  can you help me?
And then it's like-  it's like a team  basically.
My friendship is like a team, like we-  we build on each other, we-  we help each other out.
Like today,  I didn't understand  something.
And we have a test  next  week.
And so my friend sat down,  during her lunch period where she could be  eat lunch and socializing with other people  to sit down and explain  on how  the study guide is and how  certain questions that may be on the test and what I need to look for and  stuff like that.
Yeah like, you- you're there for each other.
Mm-hm.
Senior pictures.
I just took  all my senior pictures last week.
And that's a- that's a big accomplishment because believe it or not,  nowadays you don't-  you don't  see that many kids graduating from high school.
I mean, it's common but it's not-  Like anything happen.
I told my- I was telling my parents, I was like,  every year somebody in high school when they're about to graduate somebody gets-  somebody dies,  or they drop out.
And in my family,  I will be the first male to graduate from high school and  continue  to college.
No male has ever done that.
I will be the only male to do that.
And for me to have them pictures,  and  as a reminder say, oh this is where you were f-  eight years ago,  you did something.
You about to-  you about to be-  you about to be somebody's lawyer.
You gon- you gonna be something in life.
That's- that's a big accomplishment that  have that photo that showed you that you mastered one part of your life, you about to go on to the next.
No.
Very successful.
Mm-hm.
Right.
No.
No.
I don't- I don't think so.
It's plenty people out here that have government jobs and  that's doing stuff and this and that  that don't have a college degree.
I think  to go  now  and  to think-  to go to school now I think that's the right thing to do.
But you can- you can come out-  you can come out with something.
You don't have to go to school to be successful.
That's me personally, but I-  I- me personally I would go to school to be successful  cause that's what I wanna do.
But you don't have to go out, it's plenty of-  it's plenty of things you can- it's plenty of programs you can start, it's plenty  of gadgets you can mess with.
It's plenty things that you can do to make you money.
Mm-hm.
Exactly and I don't I don't like that.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
I was walking down the street  and, um,  there were, um-  there was  these two police officers.
They both were Caucasian men.
And, um,  they-  they both came up to me, they was like, where are you going?
And I said,  I'm going-  I was getting on the train.
I forgot where I was going, I was going somewhere.
I was getting on the train.
And he was like, um-  he said- he said, why do you look-  why do you look paranoid?
And right around the time, um-  right around the time this is where  Black Lives Matter was starting and it was starting to increase and stuff like that.
And, uh,  I had a hoodie on my head.
And he was like, you look real paranoid, w- did you do something?
And I said, no.
And then-  I've never told nobody this story.
He  end up checking me  to see if I had anything on me and stuff.
And at that moment,  even though I was clear free,  I was scared, I was shaking.
Cause I didn't wanna be another Trayvon Martin, or another Michael Brown, or another-  or  or another statistic on  being killed.
Another black boy  innocently being killed.
I didn't want that to be my reality.
So at that moment I was- I was scared.
I didn't-  I didn't know what was gonna happen to me.
And I had my hoodie on so  of course I was gonna be a suspect.
This little black brown skin boy  has a hoodie on,  he has his hands in his pocket.
And he's walking.
No.
I don't think so, no.
No.
No.
Not at all.
At that moment I was afraid.
But now, growing up  and seeing all the stuff that's happening in the world,  I'm not afraid.
I wanna say that was about three years ago, cause I was in-  yeah three years ago cause I was in ninth grade.
Mm-hm.
I'm not afraid.
W-  well, one,  if they aks me to do something, I'll do it  and give them no problem.
I'm not gonna be disrespectful, I'm not looking for a problem.
And also is.
Tomorrow is not promised to nobody.
I think  if that incident went the wrong way,  of course I would- of course my family and stuff would be sad.
I don't think-  I don't think I would have been sad.
Because it's common in black males to  be stopped by the police  or even to be locked up or  killed.
That's- unfortunately that's the reality.
But  my dad told me, you fear no man.
Cause he's a man at the end of the day, just like you.
He may have a gun on his shoulder,  or he may has the authority to put you behind bars.
But you fear no man.
And after he told me that-  He's a wise person,  wise man.
And after that I- I've never feared anybody.
I don't look for trouble and trouble don't look for me.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Unfortunately- uh, unfortunately, that is the reality.
that is the reality.
I think if you have- uh,  if you have money,  well you- course you can go out here and get you a nice  Rob Kardashian, or a nice Johnny Cochran.
But that's not everybody's reality, everybody can't go out there  and get a lawyer like that.
So if you have money, that-  that do  better shape your  chances.
Depending on what your circumstances is.
And unfortunately that's how the justice system  and that's how  it is in life.
And it's- doesn't mean it's right, it's not right at all.
But unfortunately,  that is true.
Oh yeah.
Cause if you don't have on the nice-  the nice Jordans or th-  or the nice, um,  Foamposites or  they have nice Helly Hansen or North Face or nothing,  they- they not checking for you.
It's sad to say.
You- it-  kids nowadays, if you don't have on s- designer stuff, your- y- you get picked upon.
They don't wanna- they don't understand that mom n- might not have the money or  daddy's in jail.
He can't-  he can't do nothing for us or  the lights are cut off so we had to spend our last bit of money on that.
They don't- they don't understand that  unfortunately.
And that's people's reality.
And  And when you have kids that-  that comes from  or  parents that have money and that does well for theirself,  they know how to humble-  they know how to humble themselves.
They know-  I see he not doing good, so th-  this old jacket that I have let me give to him cause he-  it's  it's fifty degrees outside and then there's snow on the ground and he don't got no jacket he got on  just a plain t-shirt.
A nice middle class family.
No.
Not at all.
Not at all.
And that's why I wanna be successful in life.
Cause I don't-  I've had everything  given to me.
And I wanna go out h-  I wanna go out here and I wanna know how it feels to work for something  that I want  for myself.
Everything has been given to me.
I've- I haven't worked-  I haven't worked  for anything  when it comes to money.
My parents always gaven me money, they've always bought my clothes  the sh-  my shoes,  other gadgets and stuff that I wanted.
Stuff like that.
If I wanted to do certain things  so I- I don't know how it feels  to not have.
So,  yeah, I would say we're a nice middle class family.
Mm-hm.
Oh,  yes.
It has changed drastically.
If you're paying  nineteen hundred for a one bedroom and a den it's a problem.
Almost two thousand dollars for something that you don't own  that you're renting,  that any moment they can sell and they can  kick you out.
That's a problem.
It's not right.
It's not right at all.
Because at the end of the day,  people that used to live here,  they can't afford to come back into the city.
Cause things are too expensive.
Or because, um-  or because  it's not-  it's not people out here advocating.
They don't- they don't-  everybody don't have money.
Or that comes from money.
So,  of course it's- it's-  it's  increased a lot.
From like,  there's-  like you can go on every corner now and you can find like a n- the neighborhood Starbucks or  the neighborhood bank, or  the neighborhood, um, grocery store.
So it- it's changing a lot.
I think gentrification  has its good and has its bad.
The good is kicking the people out  that can't afford it  while  you're bringing people in.
But also let's not forget the people that's being kicked out, they didn't have nowhere to go.
And let's forget about the people that's coming in, they have money so they can go wherever.
So it has its pros and it has its cons.
It's good for  people that have houses.
And it may not be good for people that's renting an apartment.
Or that may- um,  or the apartment may-  or the apartment building may be sold or-  or bought by another person and now their  rent is increasing by  a thousand dollars,  five hundred,  two thousand.
It has its pros and cons.
However it brings up your community to a upper scale  while it  takes  some people out that can't afford it.
No because w-  the school I go to is very diverse.
So you have-  you have  black people and you have Latinos, you have Mexicans,  you have Ethiopian people,  you have African people, you have Dominican people.
You have different-  different people from different races.
So the diversity  is very good in my school, I like  diversity.
But no, my school hasn't changed.
It's been the same from the beginning.
Mm,  one of my mom's friends  her kids went to this school and she was telling my mom about it.
And  so happened that-  that Monday,  they had a walk through where you can go and tour the school and stuff and  she  was in the classrooms and  seeing how the school was functioning and how-  and how the kids learn and  all that different stuff.
She did that for a whole day.
She took off from work  and she  toured the school.
And then  like  a week, I don't even think it was a week.
The next day I think I was at RD-SCHOOL-3.
I don't think it even was a week.
Mm-hm.
I like to read.
And I like watching law  TV shows.
And right now I'm in a law camp, so  that's- that has- that has a lot of my attention right now.
So it's for people that-  for anybody.
You don't-  it c- it's for actors, it's for anybody.
But you don't have to be-  or you don't have to wanna be a lawyer.
And then  it's  ran  by, uh, DC Superior Court.
And it's like, uh, wanna say like,  mm,  six month program.
And they teach you about the law from-  from-  from right  to, um,  to-  to how to act in a courtroom, how to dress in a courtroom.
Leadership skills,  reading writing skills, stuff like that.
And they teach you that within that-  when- within  those six months.
And after that they have a mock trial  in which you're  the plaintiff,  defendant,  or in our case I think it is gonna be defendant and prosecution.
And then from there-  from what we learn in that six month  time period,  we have a mock trial with real actual judges.
And they decide  what side wins or what side loses.
My godsister, she wants to be a lawyer also.
Right.
Whichever college-  I really wanna go to a school that has my major.
Or one of- or my major is one of the  most top  majors.
But I guess more I wanna sit down with my family, I wanna narrow it down by choices  with  what  I feel like  that I can do  and what they feel like they can do.
Hampton, Howard,  and I wanna say-  I wanna say Bowie.
Right.
No, mm-mm.
No.
Because-  it's not- it's not no reason why, I just-  I mean, that- that-  that never was me, never w- never was- I wasn't  the type of person like,  s-  um, a few of my other friends.
I don't have to go  all the way  over  to  travel or to learn.
I can do all of that here.
And while later on in life where I have money of my own I can  go out and explore and travel and see new cities.
I-  I've been to every city on the east coast.
Or I'm sorry, every state on the east coast.
So  it's nothing new.
I've traveled places.
Right.
No.
Because I've lived here for so long I've been to  every museum that it is downtown.
I've been to  the Capitol, I've been to the w-  White House.
I've been to everywhere in DC.
I've- I've-  I've ate at like, the most significant places that you eat at  Ben's Chili Bowl,  and stuff like that.
So,  I've n- I've never toured DC, I've always been in DC so,  oh,  this is a new building, or, I never seen that place before.
I've never  actually sat down and  like,  or I wanna go here, I wanna see that, I wanna see that.
I never did that.
It's always- like you say, it's always been in my backyard.
When,  um,  I go home, I have a driveway in my backyard.
And I have a fire-  a fire pit that's build in.
And if you stand on top of the fire pit you can see the Capitol, you can see the Monument  at night from my house.
Right.
I like the news museum cause it gives us information on past histories,  on past h-  history events that we  didn't know nothing about or  we can  draw more attention- that has- draw more attention to us.
And the African American History Museum  cause it's been a long time coming  I feel like.
And I feel like  we shoulda-  we should've been got that  for all the things that we've been through in history.
And all the things that we will still and  currently  overcoming  in our present and future lives.
Four.
And I still haven't toured everything.
No.
I like the fraternities part.
And also, um,  I like  the entertainment part.
But my favorite part is- it's this room.
And it's-  it has a circular pool.
Well, it's like a fountain.
And it has water dripping from the ceiling.
And it has like-  you can  fling a penny in there.
It's like so soothing and calming and I think it has like quotes on the wall and stuff.
And I love how  it's no person in history that's African American  that's not in that museum.
From Oprah Winfrey to Magic Johnson to Martin Luther King to Malcolm X.
Everybody  is in that museum.
Jackie Robinson.
Ted's Bulletin.
Yeah I like Ted's Um,  I like-  it's like-  it's like a-  it reminds me of a old diner.
It reminds me of a old diner and I l-  and I like that.
And when you walk in they-  they have like the donuts and stuff.
It's- I like the r-  I like the set up and the food is so good.
It's real good.
I like the pancakes.
Whenever I go to a restaurant I make up my own meal.
Even though they may charge you for extra, but I like to make up my own plates  when I go to restaurants.
I don't-   this may come with it but I want this.
Yes I like the pop tarts.
Y- you gotta eat 'em hot.
Mkay.
It's okay.
It's- it's vey loud.
And that's one of the things you're from DC, yeah everybody likes go go music.
It- I- I will listen to it but it's not my preference.
I like R and B.
And rap, like the nineties rap music.
Not today's rap music.
Right.
Tu-  no, Biggie.
Biggie, then Tupac.
Uh-huh.
By?
By Biggie,  Juicy.
Right.
That song my favorite.
Cause it talks about the struggle.
And actually l- he actually lived the struggle.
Instead of-  he wasn't-  he wasn't proud about it but it was something that he talked about, he wasn't ashamed about it.
Nowadays people wanna live the struggle,  to think that it's cool or  that's- that's what's in.
No.
It's not a- It's the struggle.
It's not about that.
People  if they could avoid the struggle they-  pretty sure they would have.
But nowadays you rap about the struggle and having all these different girls and  calling 'em out of their names which is wrong.
Cause they're women first of all.
Now,  it may be a meaning behind-  it may be a meaning behind your message.
But your message is not-  it's not accurate.
While you may-  while you may-  you claim that you may go home and the fridge might not be nothing  while you had sardines and-  sardines and rice and stuff,  and beans and stuff  was waiting for you at dinner.
You had a maid and a butler and stuff like that.
So,  it-  you don't-  you don't have to-  you don't have to talk about the struggle to be popular.
If that's not your reality, that's not your reality.
That was his reality.
That was Tupac's reality.
That was Lil' Kim,  and all the people that  grew up during the Bad Boy era and that was on-  that was on the label, that was their reality.
That may not be your reality.
So rap about what- rap about-  about you.
Rap about how you gonna go out here and be successful in life.
It's not all about, I got all the money in the world.
It's not about that.
Cause money don't make you happy at night.
It-  it don't.
Having all the money it's-  it's not all that.
people have-  A lot of celebrities and stars have money and be miserable.
Just because you can go out here and buy  whatever you want, yeah that may be good for a few days  but after a while,  it's not gonna make you happy.
Going out here and getting the latest Gucci and Prada  and Fendi and Hermes and stuff, that's not gonna make you happy.
It's gonna make you happy for that quick second but it's not gonna t-  externally and internally really make you happy.
It's not.
Mm-mm.
Be yourself.
And then go out here and change the world.
That's w- that's what makes me happy, if I can take away from myself to give to somebody else that needs it,  that actually needs it  and is in need of it  I would do it.
I would.
Okay.
That's one of my favorites.
They was- they was- that w- they was telling the truth when they was like, what's mumbo sauce, that's that's one of  people's  DC  favorite memories and moments,  when they go to carry out.
You don't even have to tell 'em.
It comes with it when you order carry out.
The mumbo sauce comes in the bag.
You don't even have to say mumbo sauce.
You say wings, mumbo sauce is in the bag.
See, I'm- I'm old school, I like to dip it I don't like to pour it all over the chicken.
Right.
To dip it.
Exactly.
Right.
And say if you don't eat it.
You gonna- Right.
It's- it's r- mostly it's red, if it's not red, it's- it's- mm, I wouldn't eat it.
It's red,  and it's- it has like a sweet and a s- like, taste to it.
Mm, and then  it's like juicy also.
I've seen people eat mumbo  sauce  by itself.
You know, it's- it's- it's good.
It's red,  it's red and it's saucy and it has like- um,  it has like a sweet  taste to it.
Yeah.
You get it from the carry out.
No you can get it from other people, like I know this lady she made her own mumbo sauce.
It was good.
Yeah.
Yeah she made her own mumbo sauce, with her picture on it and everything.
Right.
I don't know, people spell it- it's different ways you can spell it.
But I w-  mumbo- I would spell it M-A  B-O,  and then sauce.
S-A-U-C-E.