June the eighteenth, two-thousand and two.
Washington DC.
Northeast.
Yes.
No.
RD-SCHOOL-8.
Tenth.
RD-SCHOOL-5.
RD-SCHOOL-7.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
My mom was born in  Fairfax, Virginia, my dad was borned in L-  Landover, Maryland.
My mom works at a hotel,  and my dad is a mechanic.
I grew up in Clay Terrace.
No, I have-  I have four brothers and one sister.
Um,  I lived-  I used to live with my grandma and my mom,  and then my grandma passed away.
And  after my grandma passed away I went to foster care.
And then,  when I went into foster care,  a whole lot of tragedies happened.
Like, my uncle got shot,  um,  then I lost my cousin.
Um,  when I was younger, my mom told me that  my favorite word was whatever then.
Um,  we used to take trips to  South Carolina every year for  our  family reunion, and we still do that now to this day.
Um,  we go out of town just to go out of town sometimes.
Um,  my mom, I'll be her first hou- her first child to graduate  from high school and go to college.
Um,  now that I'm older,  um, I talked to my mom about my career, what I wanna do when I get older.
Um,  I cheer for RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um.
I just started yesterday.
Mm-hm.
I mean, I know how to cheer I just- just started  back doing what I was cheering.
Um,  I dance for a  dance team in DC.
I forgot the name of it but I know we dance in Mayfair.
Um.
No, I have a older brother who just didn't finish school.
Um,  my mom graduated from Roosevelt, my dad graduated-  he didn't graduate from high school he graduated from middle school, he didn't go to high school.
Um,  my mom has her-  her license in cooking, Um.
Yes.
Yes.
Um,  she likes to go out to eat sometimes.
We go to Dave and Buster's a lot.
Um.
And  oh,  I  met my-  my  uncle the other day that I'd never met him before.
And my grand- My mom's brother.
I don't really talk to my dad, so.
Um,  I used to dance for the Boys and Girls Club  with Miss RD-NAME-1.
Um,  I dance in the summer time with her when- when it's  the summer camp.
Um.
That's really it.
I was her first granddaughter.
Um,  she didn't play about none of her grandkids.
Um,  she used-  she woke us up for school, she walked us to school.
Um,  she was a little crazy.
Mm.
She would always tell me  that if she ever left, just remember that she's always watching me.
And  she told me that even if  she passed a- even when she passed away,  that  she will always be there by my side and  she'll pull me  through every  thing- obstacle that I go through even though she's not here with me.
I don't remember how old I was but I remember the year she passed away, she passed away in two-thousand nine.
Um,  I was home.
I was- I was- I- I seen her when she was having her aneurism.
And  like some days later,  they told us that my grandmother had passed away.
Yeah cause after she passed away a whole lot of stuff happened.
Went downhill.
Um,  we had- we have a cookout  all the time, like-  and  certain people cooked certain foods.
It slowed down.
We was living in a- in a apartment.
I live in a apartment with my foster mom.
I'll be going home with my mom soon.
Well I basically am living with my mom but  my-  my school stuff still say with my foster mom.
Mm-hm.
So,  my uncle and  my step-father, which is not my step-father anymore,  um,  we were all living in a house,  and  my-  um, my step-father and my uncle,  they were smoking marijuana.
And  they came into the house,  and they seen a whole lot of marijuana because someone called the police and lied and said that  my fath- my step-father and my uncle was selling  marijuana out of the house.
They found a ounce of weed in our closet.
At first me and my sister was together  but me and her kept getting into it,  so they separated us.
My little brothers are- were together.
Then my mom was pregnant when she got-  when we got taken away.
So my little brother has always been home, all his life.
I'm home with her but my- my paperwork haven't got switched over yet to her address.
Mm-hm.
No.
She did had everything she had to do, she had to get a new home, she had to get a job.
And in order for her to get a new home, she had to into a shelt- shelter to get a voucher.
And now she has a job, she works at a hotel, I don't know the name of it.
Um,  and  she has a house.
And just everything is just back to normal before I left.
My little sister came here.
Mm-hm.
Um, cause my little sister she used to come home and tell me how much fun she had at the Boys and Girls Club.
Two years ago.
No, three years ago.
Mm-hm.
When I was on the dance team and I performed  in the summer time.
Um,  A Place With No Name, by Michael Jackson with Miss RD-NAME-1.
Yeah.
Um, it was like- it gave me a opportunity to know different colleges cause I didn't know it was a college named NYU,  I didn't know it was a college named Medgar Evers, I didn't know it was a college,  um-  Temple, I knew Temple but I didn't know like all the other colleges we went to, like Sarah Lawrence, I didn't know that was a college.
Um, it just gave me a opportunity to see what a college life is and,  um,  it gave me a chance to really get close with some people cause  before I went on the college tour I didn't really talk to nobody.
But now that I-  I used to talk to people but it wasn't like  people that went on the college tour.
Now I just talk to people now.
Like those are my friends.
Um,  RD-NAME-3, RD-NAME-3, um,  RD-NAME-2 not my friend.
I don't-  we don't talk.
Um,  but I became friends with a  lot of people.
Yes.
Yes.
I wanna go to college at Delaware State University.
Because  that's where my aunt and my sister went.
And they got a good education.
Business and management.
I wanna have my own hair salon.
Because I like to do hair.
Mm.
Um, I like school,  but sometimes school gets,  um, tiring.
I  be very tired after school Because we walk from class to class, and then after class  I go-  right after school I go straight to cheerleading practice.
From four to six.
We cheer at football games.
Only the varsity ones, and  we cheer at basketball games, the varsity ones.
Mm-hm.
Um,  cause I have a really loud- I have a loud pitch in my voice.
I like to be loud.
Math.
Yes.
really good, but I use my fingers to count.
I like to use my hands.
I'm in al- not algebra, geometry.
Yes.
Algebra one.
Yes.
And then I take trigonometry.
No.
It challenges- it's challenging sometimes,  like when it's time to test or do a quiz.
Like,  they'll try to trick you.
Yes,  but sometimes in my fourth period class I don't- I don't get a education because  people that's in the- my fourth period class, it's like they like to play a lot.
Um,  ELA two.
We were learning about Wes Moore and Wes Moore.
You don't know who Wes Moore and Wes Moore is?
Um, Wes Moore and Wes Moore were two people that they're not brothers, they just have the same name.
Um,  their first name is Wes, last name is Moore.
And  one Wes Moore  had a lot going for hisself and  he didn't really have a dad in his life.
Um, his dad passed away.
And then the other Wes Moore,  he went to jail,  and he was a criminal.
Yeah.
No, we just write about- Well, we do have to compare their stories when we finish the book.
Wes Moore One.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No, the two stories-  excuse me , the two s- the two stories was written-  they were written by  one's- Wes Moore one wrote his book,  and Wes Moore two wrote his book.
They knew each other, they lived in Baltimore.
Um,   one of them was from Cherry Hill, the other one was from West Baltimore.
Um,  one of them  knew  Martin Luther King.
And  it hurted him when they got- when he got assassinated.
Like, it's a lot.
They just like to joke around all the time.
Not reading all the time but I like  my class.
Yes.
I did.
Yes.
Miss RD-NAME-2.
That's my math teacher.
Yeah.
Because  Even- she know how to control her class.
Um, like,  she know when we need breaks and stuff.
Um,  our schedule is we stay in class for eighty-five minutes.
Um,  and out of those eighty-five minutes, we get- we do a do-now,  whoever answer the do-now right we get  thirty min- I mean- I- I said thirty minutes.
Twenty seconds added on to our break.
So we get a break like at eleven o'clock.
We don't get out until eleven thirty-two.
She's white.
Um, she's short, she's fun, she's funny.
Um, she gives us snacks all the time.
Um,  she rewards you with lunch from the carry out  or wherever you choose to aks her to go.
Um,  she's just  a regular teacher.
Mm-hm.
Sometimes, it depends on  like if she's hollering.
L- I don't like people yelling.
But I like to yell.
Because it  irritates my ears.
Because I'm a cheerleader.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I used to be loud and rowdy, but I've calmed down.
I like to dance.
Ever since I been on Miss RD-NAME-1 dance team I just like to dance.
Because  I don't wanna be on cast.
I feel like I'm'a be nervous.
I don't know.
I think cast is just too challenging for me.
I can dance and all,  but cast is a whole different ball game from  the Boys and Girls Club dance team.
My mom never had the money to pay for cast.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
It's challenging and because even if I wanted to do it it would be challenging and my mom don't have the money for it.
No.
I'd just be too nervous.
I don't really wanna do it because I'm already on a dance team.
Yes.
Cause I know where to go.
Like, I know how to get around if I wanna go somewhere.
Don't have to count on my mom to go take me somewhere.
Metro.
Both.
The first time I rode the train  was with my mom, and my uncle threw my little cousin a party at Chuck-E-Cheese.
Um,  like,  eleven, twelve.
I don't know.
With my- with my mom, yeah.
Nothing.
The craziest thing I saw on the news when that lady threw  that urine on that  bus driver.
The lady told the-  the bus driver told the lady to have a good day.
And she turnt around and she threw urine on her.
She went to the back of the bus and peed in a cup.
First she got on the bus.
She went to the back of the bus to use the bathroom in a cup.
she- when it's time for her to get off she walked to the front of the bus, walked past the back door,  walked to the front of the bus, the lady- the bus driver tells her,  have a nice day, ma'am.
And the lady turns around and throw the pee on her.
You didn't hear about that?
Yeah.
This was like some weeks ago.
Just because the lady said she had a ni- have a nice day.
When?
I wasn't here.
I heard about when it was a riot at HD and somebody got shot.
Mm-mm.
I was a s- eighth grader.
A brawl broke out between Kenilworth and Clay Terrace  and it was shooting.
Hood beef.
Mm-hm, hood beef.
Not no more.
Not no more.
Sometimes.
It depends on how y- why y'all beefing.
I don't even know why they was beefing.
Cause I don't get into that.
Um,  RD-ADDRESS-4 RD-ADDRESS-3 they beefing because RD-ADDRESS-3 killed RD-NAME-2.
In their neighborhood.
Um,  RD-ADDRESS-3 and RD-ADDRESS-3.
They beefing over he say, she say.
I don't know the other beefing people.
People that be here.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No.
It depend-  They be cooler sometimes.
But if like they see-  Say like if  I'm from RD-ADDRESS-3 and you from RD-ADDRESS-3 and  we just sitting right here talking to each other, my hood girls gonna be mad because I'm talking to you and you my  op.
My stomach hurt.
They'll fight.
My hood girls' side.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
Yup.
No cause we got metal detectors.
Every morning.
And if you got a phone they gonna take it.
If you got oil they gonna take it, if you got spray they gonna take it.
Oil that comes with the spray.
Mm-hm.
You can, um, hit somebody in the head with the bottle.
They tell you throw your water- your water bottle in the trash.
Like you come in there with- not with a water bottle like that but a like water- Deer Park bater wottle, you ain't g- letting them smell it, then they- you can't get in with it, they gon- they make you throw it in the trash.
Mm-hm.
If they know-  if they don't know someone get in  you good.
But if they  know it's on you,  they could smell it all day long, but.
HD don't care, they s- people smoke in the school.
Then you getting suspended or you getting put out.
I don't pay attention to people in my neighborhood.
Cause I don't like people.
No.
I just don't conversate with people.
Mm-hm.
I stick to myself  ever since-  ever since after RD-NAME-2 birthday.
He.
Because- I used to go with him.
And like he was talking to my friend behind my back.
I don't like RD-NAME-2.
Um,  he had sex with one of my friends.
And they came here with hickeys on they neck  I ain't see it.
So I just felt like RD-NAME-2 could just move on about his life.
I was dating RD-NAME-2 since I first came here.
When I first came here?
F- ever came here?
Three.
Mm-hm.
August.
Ain't my boo no more, I don't care.
Don't care about him.
I've just separated myself from him.
And all his friend- and- Yeah,  little short RD-NAME-1.
Oh that's hand sanitizer.
Short RD-NAME-1.
No.
I met him after a fight.
Okay.
So I used to live around E Street.
And RD-NAME-1 used to be around E Street and play basketball.
But I used to like RD-NAME-2.
But RD-NAME-2 ain't like me.
Then,  RD-NAME-2 and his boy RD-NAME-2 was fighting.
RD-NAME-2 dropped a boy, RD-NAME-2 girlfriend jump in it.
I jump in it.
So.
So the girlfriend jump in it.
I jump in.
So I'm like,  you got it, RD-NAME-1, messed up you not about to hit him,  they don't have nothing to do with you need to mind your business.
And she got smart.
So I hit her,  and I get to fighting her.
Then RD-NAME-2 jump in it and try to hit me.
So RD-NAME-1 hit RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2 drop.
I hit the girl, she drop.
And we walked off.
And I was talking to RD-NAME-1, I was like,  do you know I just really fought for you?
Like, I'm just really screaming like, did you e- do you know I just really fought for you?
And you just gonna walk past and not say thank you?
They coulda jumped you.
Oh, my bad,  my bad, boo.
I said, boo?
I ain't your boo.
Everybody like, oh,  yeah, RD-NAME-3, yeah RD-NAME-2.
So I'm like,  I'm not finna go in the house change my- cause I got blood all over my shirt y'all, I'm'a have to go in the house change my clothes.
So I go home I change my clothes, I come back outside.
RD-NAME-2 still at the basketball court.
So I'm like, alright.
So that's when he like,  so,  you got a boyfriend?
I was like, no.
He was like,  oh follow me on Instagram, I follow him on Instagram, and he was like, can I have your number?
I said, you can have my number.
But don't think it's nothing more or nothing less.
Like, try to be funny, so.
I gave him my number.
But a long story short,  we started talking,  then Christmas Day we got together.
And  he bought m- he bought me- um,    what he get me for-  I forgot what he got me, he got me a whole lot of stuff.
I know he got me a ring,  a necklace, some earrings,  he brought some balloons to my house.
And then,    after that  everything just been the same after that.
Then he started messing with the girl RD-NAME-2.
Then he gave her   hickeys, she gave him hickeys.
They was about to  have sex.
So I'm just like, RD-NAME-1,  like, what's going on?
Well I ain't say nothing that whole day to him.
We here.
I ain't  that whole day, I'm just in the teen center I'm sitting on the couch, I'm just listening to my music on my phone.
He come sit by me, I move.
Don't sit by me.
Bye.
Go live with her, you can give her hickeys, bye.
So I sat, then he move  over there with me so I move back to where I was.
So,  then he just aks me what's wrong and I said, son,  you keep doing all this behind my back, son.
I really was down for you.
I'm get to crying, he like, so why is you crying?
What else am I supposed to do, RD-NAME-1 like, you're not understanding.
Like,  I was- I was there for you, you're not about to  keep sitting right here playing with me like  I wasn't just right there with you fighting with you.
Like,  no, we not about to do it like that.
So after that we had a conversation about what happened.
They wanted her to- he wanted her to  give him head because she gold,  and she green and  all this other stuff.
Then,  he tell his mother that I hit him.
All this.
Yes, all of this.
Like,  I did hit him, but I had a right to hit him because you just really disrespecting me in front of all your friends.
Like,  I'm gonna punch you in your face because you just feel like  you just-  Yeah.
So his mother like,  why you hit my son?
I'm just like, you don't even know what he did mom, like you don't know what he did.
She's like, y'all cannot be fighting,  y'all a couple, y'all been together for a minute,  y'all cannot be fighting.
Yes we could be fighting because he's not gonna  disrespect me or call me no B in front of his friends and behind closed doors he wanna be in my face.
That's dead.
No.
We not just gonna do it like that.
Mm-mm.
So he just like, um-  So,  after all of that, we get back together,  so.
With me it's three strikes, you out.
Three strikes you're out, like, it's no coming back.
I gave RD-NAME-1 chance after cha- I ain't even give RD-NAME-1 three strikes, I gave him more than three strikes.
Like everybody just kept telling me, you're dumb for this boy, you're dumb for this boy.
Yes I am dumb for this boy.
At the end of the day,  I love this little boy, and I still do love him but it's never us- cause we not going back to what we- what we was.
Like,  we cordial, we friends, but you're not my friend no more for what you did.
You're not.
So,  then Valentine's Day, I'm still  about to get ready for school,  he come to my house,  he throw a teddy bear at me.
Well, he had the little teddy bear and the flowers,  the candy, all that in a little-  in a little bag that you- that you bring up like that and tie at the top.
And it had bows and stuff on it.
He threw the teddy bear at me.
I woke up, he had the balloons though.
And then  happy Valentine's Day.
Then I gave him his teddy bear, he grabbed his balloons.
And  after that we were just- ain't nothing really happen.
Then the summer time came,  and he was still trying to talk to RD-NAME-2.
Um,  after RD-NAME-2 party they all went to RD-NAME-2 house and  RD-NAME-1 and RD-NAME-2 had sex at RD-NAME-2 house and  they droke RD-NAME-2.
Like, all this.
That's fine too.
That's fine, that's fine RD-NAME-1.
We don't-  I'm not gonna talk to you for a long time.
Why you can't talk to me, bruh?
You acting like I got her pregnant, you acting like I had her-  I had her- had sex with her raw.
I said it's not the  point of you having sex with her it's the principle of  you have a girlfriend you having sex with another female.
So then after that,  I just stop- stopped talking to him for like two months.
And then after that, he text me, he was like, you still mad at me?
I was like, no I don't hold grudges.
That's not my- that's not me.
He like,  I'm sorry, I really don't want you to leave me, I don't want you to get with nobody else.
I said, oh.
And I ain't s- I just kept saying, oh.
He was like, you not acting yourself, are you really okay?
I said, yeah I'm fine,  the question is are you okay.
Is your balls okay?
Are they itching?
Is you o- is you okay, like,  do you have bumps, are you okay?
Like, that's the question.
Cause you having sex with a girl that got gonorrhea.
Like,  are you okay, that's the question.
He like, yeah I'm alright, I went to the doctor,  this that and the third.
he did go to the doctor.
It came back,  he ain't have nothing.
So,  we got back together.
Then after that,  his birthday came.
No, that- no, something else happened.
He posted some girl on his page.
Like it was just a whole lot of stuff.
And I just gave this boy chance after chance after chance, like.
And one thing I c- always said about RD-NAME-1,  he never hit me before.
We- it would be- we always was play fighting.
But me getting serious, me hitting him, everything, he never hit me back.
He'd always like, pin me down like, mo,  stop playing with me, da da da da.
He had never hit me though.
So,  he posted some girl on his page.
I beat the girl up cause she said something to me.
I don't even fight over no boy but you said something to me.
That was the fact.
I woulda just left you alone, you coulda had this boy, like,  you could've been had him, like, you coulda  snatched him when you wanted to.
Like,  I'm really- like,  I fel- I was just like, RD-NAME-1, I'm really done.
I'm really done, I'm really done, like.
So he like, no you not.
You not going nowhere,  you not going nowhere.
How you gonna tell me where I'm going?
Then we get back together.
Then, birthday come,  right?
I ain't gonna see RD-NAME-1.
I'm on my cycle on his birthday.
I ain't gonna see him for a reason.
If a drop-  if a drip of blood get on your bed, then how you gonna feel?
Not saying we gonna do anything on his birthday while I'm on my cycle but I'm just saying.
I'm still on your bed, I bleed through my pants what are you gonna do?
You're not gonna help me, you're not gonna get no peroxide and put that blood- that peroxide on this bed.
You're not gonna do that.
You're gonna laugh at me like it's funny.
So I said, no I'm not coming over there, I'm not coming over there,  So I guess he took that for-  a a- he took- got a attitude,  and he was  talking to RD-NAME-2 again.
They had sex again, gave her hickeys, he gave- she gave him hickeys again.
And he thought we was getting back together.
No baby.
I'm done.
That just how- that just how it went.
I'm done.
So I just feel like if I give a person chance after chance,  and to me it's three strikes you're out, I just gave you four whole chances.
And you took it for granted, so therefore we're done, I'm not talking to you.
Like,  you're not my friend.
No.
I don't even say hi to this man no more, I don't even hug hid- him no more.
No.
I'm sorry.
And everybody say, every time we talk about RD-NAME-1 why your voice get shaky?
What?
My feelings are hurt.
Then I aks him, I'm like, so what if- what if I did it?
Oh, you woulda got effed up, da da da da da.
You woulda had to see me, you and that nigga.
Like,  so what if I steal RD-NAME-2?
What if I beat you up?
Then what?
How you gonna feel?
Oh, then I guess I deserved it.
Bye, RD-NAME-1,  bye.
Bye.
Then he just keep telling everybody that's still my girl.
No, we not together.
We're not together, I'm sorry, we're not together.
Everybody keep saying, why you break up with RD-NAME-1?
Mind your business, why is it your business?
The man was having fun for his birthday.
That's not having fun.
Then you smoke on your birthday, you don't even smoke.
You lied to me, you don't even smoke.
But then,  when I first aksed him what it was, I knew what it was and my friends told me what it was.
His friends are my friends.
I know his friends.
They're not your men for real.
They telling me everything you're doing.
So I aksed him like,  RD-NAME-1 what is that on your neck?
Oh, I'm breaking out, something bit me.
Something bit you?
Bye, RD-NAME-1, don't even- don't even say nothing to me, like,  don't talk to me, don't speak to me, don't hug me.
Then the next day he wanna throw basketballs.
Why you throwing basketballs at me?
Like,  don't throw basketballs at me.
RD-NAME-1 was really there for me like, he was-  he was down sometimes.
But I feel like- like,  me telling him no get the best of him, like he just don't- he just can't take no.
No,  it's- it's- it's- no is no, leave it alone.
No.
No.
I knew this would happen.
Ever since I- ever since after  Fourth of July, when I text him, and I was like, what you doing?
He was like, nothing.
He just put to say well j- I just knew  he was gonna do this.
Tell her some he still grieving, I don't wanna hear none of that.
RD-NAME-2 RD-NAME-2 been don- been gones for seven months.
I don't wanna hear that, I don't.
I don't.
I lost my cousin, I was still grieving, and you ain't care.
So I don't wanna hear it.
He feel like everybody feel like I'm wrong, I'm not wrong.
He hurt my feelings.
I left here early and went home.
I ain't stay here for that day, I left and went home.
Then I blocked him on Instagram.
Just the other day I unblocked him, just the other day.
And he ain't got no new girlfriend yet, I don't know why.
He can go ahead- I- he can go ahead and get a new girlfriend.
I'm not gonna hurt that girl.
He think I wanna hurt that girl, I'm not gonna hurt her.
He can get a new girlfriend.
That don't hurt my feelings.
Hm?
I love him but I'm just really over him like for real.
When I see him all I could do is just look, like,  ugh.
You skank.
Like for real.
Like for real.
I just can't take that little boy.
Mr.
RD-NAME-1 was like, y'all gonna last for a long time.
We lasted long enough.
We lasted long enough.
Then he gonna aks me, are you really dreading your hair?
I said, yup.
Why you so worried about me?
Where all RD-NAME-2 is she dreading her hair?
He be mad when I bring her up around him.
He be real mad, I don't care.
You felt the need to give- put her in the bed that I laid in, so therefore I wanna bring her up around you.
Everybody like RD-NAME-1 though.
That's fine with me, I don't care.
That don't bother me.
It don't.
It really don't.
I talk to somebody else.
This boy that go to my school, he a new boy.
RD-NAME-2.
So, He- he kind of a little bony.
He brown skin.
He got earring.
He- he live up Simp, he knows my father.
He has a temp fade.
That's my forever fifty piece.
I thought RD-NAME-1 was my fifty piece.
But he really not.
Like,  RD-NAME-2 is everything to me.
He buy me lunch every day.
Cause I don't eat school lunch.
He got a car.
Got a car?
You got a car?
What?
But he wanted to talk to me first, I was playing hard to get.
And you know how girls be.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
He like, I'm not gonna leave you alone until you my girl.
I ain't his girlfriend yet, so.
Not yet.
Oh it's coming, but that's- that's not my dude yet, it's coming.
We went to the movies.
It.
We went to go see It.
I was scared out my life.
I was like, oh my god!
He was like, calm down, it's okay.
I was like, what?
He was like, calm down, it's okay.
None of that.
We went to the movies in the Boulevard, he took me all the way uptown to go in the house.
He drove me all the way uptown.
I don't let him pick me up from here cause RD-NAME-1's a little crazy.
No.
Mm-mm.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-NAME-1 is a senior, bye bye.
See you later.
Bye bye, go to college.
I don't know.
You could aks RD-NAME-2 I don't know.
You gotta aks RD-NAME-2 I don't know.
But me and RD-NAME-2 we going to Delaware State.
Mm-mm.
He's a freshman.
Yeah but he belong in the tenth.
He not- Uh-uh.
He fifteen.
He not in the tenth for  family reason.
He was out of  school when he lost his grandmother.
He ain't never go back to school.
Hm?
Oh.
My- I don't know, you can aks my friend.
I'm getting a car next year.
And RD-NAME-1 will not be getting a ride.
Not when I get a car.
I'm getting a car in June.
So he still need a- he still need a ride.
He still need a ride.
I gotta go.
Little RD-NAME-1.
RD-NAME-1 is crazy.
I pay that man no mind.
I really don't, Miss RD-NAME-2, for real.
Everybody think I'm not over him, I'm really over him.
A little part of me, but a- the other part of me is saying,  nah.
Don't go back.
I don't eat Tootsie Rolls, I don't eat candy.
But thank you.