Um,  they tryna revitalize.
But  I don't see  the real change.
Um,  I see  they rebuilding  houses, townhomes,  and um,  new aqua center but  the reality is they not  um,  building more affordable apartment buildings for low income families.
Um,    down on Eighth Street  it's very different from when I grew up.
Now in this-  buildings after buildings, clubs,  um, new buildings that they building up with new condos and  um,  it's different now.
Um, I remember you wouldn't see a white person on them streets, now they are everywhere.
Um,    Southeast,  mm,  only thing change about Southeast is  um,  they building more schools.
Uh, they re- tryna revitalize schools like Ballou.
Um,  but  the crime still-  still the same.
Um,  I think they need to make more  uh, Boys and Girl Club, bring back the Boys and Girl Clubs and  um, somewhere where the kids could go and play.
Um,  they need to bring back edunalcation- educational programs.
Which I think  DC schools has gotten better cause when I went to schools  you had to learn on your own.
So with these new  uh, chartered schools I think they doing a very fine job  with the schooling.
But as-  All in all I think they need to  really focus on  the inner city people.
Low income families.
Find a way where they can  live affordable and find better jobs.
The teachers didn't care.
You had to uh,  basically learn on your own.
Like I was a sports player,  and it was difference between boys and girls  uh, basketball team.
Like we had to work for our grades,  they boys they didn't.
They would get they grade handed to.
Um,  when we needed help, it was nobody to go to, I had to learn on my own.
Um,    only teacher who had a impact on me  was RD-NAME-6 in RD-SCHOOL-3 High School um,  he was our ROTC instructor.
And  um,  he was very d- well disciplined, he disciplined all his s- uh,  kids and  he treated every  uh, kid like a cadet like we was his kids, so.
He really had a impact on me.
So.
That's it.
I'm a mail handler assistant  at  the United States Postal Service.
Currently  um, getting my  degree, bachelor's degree  in business administration with a minor in HR, hopefully I could  continue to get my master's.
Business administration with a minor HR.
Keep them active.
I try to keep 'em in sports.
Um,  they love to stay in the house and play the game but  we have to iterate with them that  they need to read.
And one thing I don't like about the public schools  um, is that they took out phonics.
Phonics and  handwriting.
I think  phonics should still be in the school cause that's how I learned how to read.
That's why you-  we have so many kids who growing up in the inner city that don't know how to read cause they don't know how to break-  break they words down.
Versus when we had phonics in the school system,  they taught the kids how to break the word down before they c- can know the word and learn how to read better.
Um,  also me and my husband  when they was growing up we always read to them.
Um,  and they have other people in they lives that  had a impact on 'em too like my husband father he was real smart.
Um,    his brothers,  my uh, sisters,  um,  and  you know  my kids was just very early at learning how to use the computer and stuff like that cause they had family members who showed 'em how to, so.
That's one way you could, you know  teach 'em  how to be responsible and  you know, how to study  but they gotta want it for theyself too and you-  being a parent you have to want that for your kids, too.
My first job.
Hm.
What was my first job?
I think it was a-  I d- uh-  In high school  my last year of high school cause I had a half day schedule  me and my sister work at this peanut factory all the way out Laurel,  and  I quit  like  in two weeks cause I did- I couldn't do that and sports at the ta- same time and try to go to school.
Cause it was a night job, so  it didn't last long.
At all.
And then as I got out of  high school,  I went to college for a little while  and  when I got to college, cause I didn't have the freedom that I didn't have,  while I was in school,  party was like a-  uh,  college was like a partying ground for me.
So.
I left that,  then I went to hair school.
Had to drop out of hair school cause I had got pregnant with my twins.
Then I went back to get my license so I'm currently licensed as a hair stylist  as well as a licensed daycare  provider.
Cause eventually I wanna open my salon  slash daycare center.
So that's why I went back to school to get my degree in business management  and HR.
Nothing but to protect myself.
Everywhere I looked around I had to fight.
So I learned how to protect myself.
And I learned that  if you wanna succeed and get out the ghetto you gotta work hard for it.
So that's what I did.
Georgetown.
Georgetown.
Mm-hm.
I think it's Georgetown sixteen, or something like that.
I ain't even gonna lie.
I visited National Mall one time and that was when I was in school.
My brother backyard.
Yup.
Well sometimes we can look out our window and  see it.
Or sometime we go to Cosca Park.
Or sometimes you could sit on two ninety-five  and look at it.
My husband, my family, that's it.
Yes, but all us work.
I have a  uh, friend she's a police officer that's my best friend, we went to hair school together, w- basically we did everything together  until she went into the police force.
Um,  back in high school I still talk to  um, some of my friends from the basketball team.
Uh, RD-NAME-3  uh, me and her close  but uh, we have our families, she live out Clinton.
So we see each other when we go to church sometimes.
And we talk on the phone but when we get together it's always  the same, so we know that  you know we are true friends cause it alway the s-  always the same when we see each other.
But all in all I stays in the house.
Trying to get them book works done.
That's it.
Yeah they'll come around and visit  as well as I visit them but  like I said  we be too busy  with our family.
I can't remember.
You gonna have to come back with me with that.
I been out of DC for so long um- Mm-mm.
That's the bomb right there.
That's the bomb dot com.
That's it, that's all I know right now.
But it was a lot of words we used to say.
But once you leave,  and you got a  you know  order for you to get a job you gotta leave them slang words behind, so  I really don't even know anymore.
To be honest.
Maybe when you leave they'll come back.
You know how I talk with y'all around so I don't know.
Mm-mm.
Well some people tell me when I talk that I sound like I'm from South Carolina, so.
I don't know.
I don't know what they saying when they say I sound like I'm from the South.
No.
Three.
RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-4.
Uh, from  nineteen seventy-seven until  ninety  six.
After I graduated from high school ninety-five, we moved to Maryland ninety-six.
Mm-hm.
Yeah we just moved back, me and my husband just moved back in DC, it's been a year and a half now.
Uh no.
I'm go- I'm moving back to Maryland.
Only thing I like now n- is the school system.
And that's it.
Yes.
You're welcome.