Uh, yeah,  I s- yeah, I say so, yeah.
Movies?
Uh,  I've have to say Godfather,  Goodfellas,  Well I'm just gonna say all the Godfellas-  Goodfellows.
Um,  probably Paid in Full.
??
in Paid in Full and, um,  Scarface.
Um, well,  I guess,  the fifth one have to be, uh- Yeah I said all of 'em though.
Yeah.
Ah yeah, so I guess the Godfathers, uh, Scarface, uh, Paid in Full,  uh,  uh, uh,  Belly,  and, uh- Hold on, I said Godfather, Paid in Full,  Goodfellas,  uh, Scarface,  and yeah, yeah, Belly.
Out of what, those five?
Uh, I think the powerful movie that I seen, um,  would have to be,  um, I can't even- What was it?
I can't even- Inspirational I'd have to say, uh,  Remember the Titans I guess.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Nah yeah, h- to what, to movies or what?
Oh yeah, yeah, if it got anything to do with action, uh, anything, you know, gotta do with action or drama or comedy I'm there.
Not really.
Nah, nah, nah, I ain't really with the superhero person, you know what I'm saying.
I was more so like try to be like  more  I guess, realistic with it, you know what I'm saying, w- with the movie, and the situation and the plot or somewhats- You know what I'm saying, just try to use that movie  add to my, you know, everyday life.
You know, I don't got time to be, you know, games or whatever the case may be, you know.
So I ain't really looking at superhero whole little, you know, thing.
That wasn't for me.
Not really either, like I was more so- People was watching Cartoon Network,  I was watching like, Disney.
You know what I'm saying,  I wasn't- you know, nah, not really.
Uh, it probably have to be- Uh, what was that s- joint called?
Uh, uh, Even Stevens I guess.
You know what I'm saying, it was just crazy like- like brother and sister and just I don't know that joint was just crazy.
The whole situ- the whole set up but  I guess that joint.
Yeah.
Nah, nah, it's a- it's like- it's like- it's like a family, got a family, you know what I'm saying, it's like a family, like, you know they family, it's like, you know, the brother and sister like, you know, real close and he- I mean, they  you know, close in age and they go to the same high school.
And it's like from there, you know, it's like brother sister like rivalries, and it's just like- you know, its just crazy, it's like-  You know what I'm saying  okay Give you a little run for your money at that age, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, of course.
Yeah cause it's like- you know, I'm like, the middle-  the middle child, my brother the youngest and my sister's the oldest and it's just like, you know what I'm saying-  you know, it's like I'm the mi- I'm in the middle so it's like I don't get  as much of- you know what I'm saying, it's not balanced or nothing so it's like I'm just- I mean, always trying to- trying to maintain what I got, you know what I'm saying, so it's just like it is what it is.
It be like, damn.
Mm-hm.
they definitely treat my brother like the baby, trying to- I be like, god damn, cuz and- and we twins, you know what I'm saying, like.
He like what, twenty-three minutes younger than  younger than me?
You know what I'm saying, but I'm like, damn this nigga really the baby.
And so I'm like, yeah it's crazy.
But it's cool, you know what I'm saying.
I'm like, it's all good that joint crazy, it just throws me off though when I get to thinking about certain things, just be like, yeah that's crazy.
But it's all love.
Yeah like you ain't nowhere.
You ain't nowhere.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like they second to last.
Nah, yeah, yeah, I mean, yeah I did that, you know what I'm saying, but yeah that definitely was, you know, like something to do in the neighborhood, whatever the case may been.
Trick or treat.
Oh well more so I guess you could call me the, um- Oh, oh, oh, oh, I was like the villain, I was like, the- like, you know, I was- Uh, I can't even remember who I was back then.
I was something.
Nah, I  I c- yeah, I was the- Yeah, yeah, nah yeah I was him, I was the grim reaper all the time.
Yeah.
Nah, I mean, you know, I try, you know, I ain't never- you know, ain't really- You know, I got my own style I guess you could call it, you know.
Yeah, yeah, you know, I try different things, you know, try to  call it m-  Nah, nah, you know, I ain't- it ain't nothing spontaneous or nothing, you know, over the boat.
But, you know I- you know, I dip and dab, you know, I- you know.
Yeah.
Yeah,  Nah, like, we- Nah, like we- me and him are really opposite.
Like I might catch a- a- uh, uh, uh, uh, a ear infection in my left ear, he can catch it same day, same week, everything in his right ear,  you know what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Right.
Man I can't even tell you one of those stories, man.
I can't even tell you one of those stories.
Man,   Alright, yeah, alright, I'm- a twin story, yeah, basically a twin story, I'm'a give you a twin story.
I'm trying to find a good twin story for this story right here,  cause hopefully it goes somewhere.
But, um,  I don't know what to say, it's just crazy how- like, you know, like how it started off as just growing up, and just like, you know how you run into the same people, whatever,  you know, growing up and you see 'em again, whatever.
But it just like,  they look at me and my brother as the same, but that's the same time different.
Like I'm more so mature, he more so, you know, whatever it- it is he-  And it be just like-  like time, you know what I'm saying, flipped.
They be like, oh, my brother on they line, or he- they on his- my brother line and just like, alright cool.
At the same time it's like damn,  I don't even know who I'm talking to.
So it be like now, like I say, to give you a story and everything,  I'm about talk to a little youngin and everything,  and it just like everything's cool, everything was sweet, you know what I'm saying.
And it was just like,  she not even knowing like I had a twin.
And it was just like- Nah like just like-  like yeah I just started talking to her and everything.
And it was just like, me and my brother used to play so many games and just be like, man I know if I- you talk to shorty I can talk to her too.
You know what I'm saying, not even her knowing or whatever the case may've been, so it just like alright cool, whatever.
So it was just like, alright cool.
So like I said, I'm talking to shorty or whatever, so we probably talking for like a good week.
And I don't even know how shorty got my brother number, how, you know, they got each other number, but  you know, she got his number whatever, they talking too.
So she was just like-  like at the same time, like- My name RD-NAME-2 his name RD-NAME-3.
So she was just like,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-2.
So my brother just going with it, you know what I'm saying, like my brother said he told her like his name was RD-NAME-3 but she just kept saying his name was d- like- She ain't even say his name was RD-NAME-2 but like his name was RD-NAME-2 b- just because  she would like  be talking like,  you know what I'm saying, everything at the same style, everything was like  from the outside looking in you wouldn't even know.
It was just like she never seen the nigga, or to see him, not even knowing like,  we was twins.
It was just like,  like, she was like, oh, like nah you got somebody out here like just like you.
Like, I know you do.
And it was just like, yeah like I know like, I'm just like, that's crazy.
Holding it up.
Man, you know- already know like, man, I-    I- like I like- nah it ain't trying- I'm trying- I'm not trying to swell like, I'm trying to keep it real like, out there out there I'm trying to keep it real but I don't wanna, you know what I'm saying like, the c- Yeah.
Nah, not like, you know, yeah, no I ain't trying to incriminate nobody.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Damn, young.
Yeah, nah, yeah you can definitely take advantage of the shit but it just like, dog, like-  It- you know, son like more so, you know what I'm saying, it's- I- I wouldn't even call it taking advantage cause it's just like I guess, you know, his name is in the system more or whatever.
And it's just like,  you know what I'm saying, I tell them my name off buck and they just like- they think it's funny or they think I'm playing because, you know,  similar or the like the, you know, the sim- you know, the quote,  my name RD-NAME-2, I ain't in it, so they be like, yeah what's your real fucking name?
So it's just like,  I tell 'em one thing, and then it's like,  some notes might just pop up or red flag the joint,  and they be like, oh,  oh yeah get your dumbass on the ground like really  do some  big bama shit, you know what I'm saying.
Just be like-  like dog like nah I just told you r- my real name, like you- you really lunching, you know what I'm saying.
They be like,  nah this nigga fit the description such and such, like nah this- this cuz right here.
And it be like- like I say, like I gotta really have  ID, have another bank card just to show what's really up.
Cause it really be like, nah like I saw the guy .
Then it be like, uh, st- like a and one thing happened and whatever, you know what I'm saying, it was some- something petty,  but they still locked me up, so I ain't need peep the shit, took my fingerprint and everything.
So then like, they let me go whatever, and it's like I checked my paperwork,  these joints still had my brother name on it.
I'm like, damn, like,  you know what I'm saying, I could have been petty like, yeah, I'm RD-NAME-5, or, you know what I'm saying, just been like, nah yeah, whatever.
But, you know, I'm like, nah I'm the- y'all got the wrong name, wrong person, you know what I'm saying, y'all lunching, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah, but it was just like, you know, it- like, I just know like on the scale like that, as small as that, I know it could be bigger and better, you know what I'm saying, if I was really fluking and wanted to swindle or whatever, take advantage or whatever.
But like I say, like,  it's- it's definitely pros and cons of having a twin.
And especially if you being identical,  and it just like, damn like, damn I don't know who I'm talking to.
And especially if you like- we like- like I say, we night and day, like you don't never see us together so it's like you don't know who you talking to.
And they don't even know if I have a twin if you d- if d- if you really don't know me, you know what I'm saying.
They be like, yeah, what's up man.
Like, it be crazy like- Yeah, that's what I was about to say.
And it be crazy cause it be like- like- it's cats like even know my brother, like sometime be in the same circle, and other times we don't.
So a dude might be like, yeah man, blah, blah, blah, man what's up man, it be like,  you know, I might keep it going a little bit, but  you know, you don't know me, you know my brother.
So they be like, oh yeah, damn, you know, matter of fact he did say something about the other, whatever the case may've been.
I'm like, yeah, you know, I'm'a let 'em know what's up, you know what I'm saying, yeah definitely, you know,  it is what it is.
But it- you know, like I say, you know, it's pros to cons to it.
And it's like, you know,  it has it's ups and it has it's downs.
But like, I know one thing, like I don't want nothing, you know, the- He a good dude, I'm a good dude,  that's just one thing, you know what I'm saying, I worry about, like something happen like, somebody, you know, just get back or whatever the case may've been.
I tell him like, that's one thing like that's- that's the flupe thing, cause it's like they don't know or  they like, there he go or, you know, set us up, like, nah yeah, fuck that, definitely gotta, you know what I'm saying,  you know, stay above floating, you know what I'm saying, walk that, you know, thin rope.
Yeah but nah I'm not- dog like, like,  If- like, dog, son-  That's one thing that we gotta discuss, you know what I'm saying, later and everything, but I think it's some money to be made right there, or whatever, you know,  definitely.
Mm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, mostly we used to compete like wrestling, you know what I'm saying like, you know, see who was the big bad wolf, you know what I'm saying, just to see who would tap out, you know what I'm saying, like.
You know, we- we go blow for blow, toe for toe.
And it just be like, yeah, like, we know, like, you know, at the end of the day, you know, he might do something  be like, damn that was petty.
I might do the same but it still be like,  yeah I still love you at the end of the day, you know what I mean.
And it be like, know what I'm saying- you know what I'm saying, little brother be competition, you know what I'm saying, I ain't gonna say like, petty petty, but, you know what I'm saying, it wouldn't be like, oh yeah.
Like I remember like me rolled out  throwing him off the bed  and him fucking like- He had the real  that's why he got a scar on his cheek cause like, I threw him off the bed and he scarred his cheek off the- uh,  like the dresser.
And them I remember another time we was running in the house, he was trying to chase me some tricky shit,  and like I juked, shook and like, it was like a little hallway like you gotta hit him with the quick move.
And the nigga realized  boom, head first like lunched.
I'm like, damn cuz, had to get another stitches and shit.
But it's ??
it's like, you know, competition like the little sports and everything, I guess you could say sports, me and him  compete in sports and shit.
Yeah.
I mean, for the most part, uh, for right now, mainly now, it's usually just football, you know, for the most part football.
Yeah see who can keep up, who can throw the ball faster or better, whatever.
Yeah last time I think it was me, and he was sorry, and he was like looking weak out there.
I'm like, man you need to get your shit straight.
He like, yeah, I ain't nowhere.
Nah, you know, we can keep this joint going.
Uh, I mean, you know,  I'm so DC.
Oh man, you know,  man, I wanna tell the kids man,  listen to your parents,  stay in school,  um, you know, you- you the future, so, you know what I'm saying, definitely, you know, you got what it take  to be who you want.
And, you know, don't let nobody, you know,  sell you short or whatever the case may be.
You know what I'm saying, keep it real to yourself at all times.
And, you know,  your mind is your best weapon.
That's all I got to say, player.
It's a tool, it's a- it's a-  it's supposed to be used, it's supposed to-  it's supposed to- you supposed to-  I'm trying to tell you man, like I say, like, you know, like I say, your mind is your best weapon I'm talking about your brain.
And, uh- Yeah, it's a powerful thing to waste, you know, and it's- it's- it's- you know, like I say to kids, you are the future.
Nah.
Nah.
I thought about it, I wanna go to a opera, I wanna go see Phantom of the Opera.
Yeah.
You know,  you know, I- you know, I wanna- you know, I'm just curious I guess you could say, you know.
Nah yeah, I- I seen a little bit, you know, I just- I would just like- you know I've seen a little- an inside or whatever the case may be, but, you know, I'm still curious, I wanna, you know, get another  glimpse, you know, I wanna go another-  you know, I wanna peel that layer, you know what I'm saying, I wanna go another layer in  past.
Uh,  uh, nah, uh, probably- you know, in probably like, you know, thirteen, at probably age of thirteen.
You know, I had a little, you know, I don't know.
I don't know.
I just got curious, I guess.
Uh, right now, you know, I used to know how to play the drums, trombone.
Yeah, yeah,  Yeah, I about to say, I used to know how to play, I don't know like- I mean, I know how to play but at the same time, like y- if I'm trying to read it, trying to see what I'm playing, I wouldn't know what I'm looking at.
Just a little sort of I know what the- you know, couple notes and everything, but other than that, I be like, yeah I don't know, you ain't nowhere.
But, uh, you know, I can make it sound good, you know.
Make it look good too, I guess.
Word.
Oh man, you know, nu- you ain't nowhere, it's like you ain't nowhere, you ain't- you ain't- like, where you at now you somewhere, but you ain't nowhere.
It's like-  it's like how them cats say- S-  you- you know, d- it depend- depending- yeah, depending on how you state it.
Depending on how- you know, you know, how you- you know, how you phrase it, you know what I'm saying.
Like, you know, I might crack a joke  and it be like, yeah man, you know, I seen you on, you know,  four ninety-five, you know, you wasn't nowhere going fast, you know what I'm saying, you seen- you know, you seen my rear view, you know what I'm saying, shorty, look man look,  you ain't nowhere, you know.
But, uh, other than that, you know, like I say, it's like  you know what I'm saying, you know how I mean, you know, you ain't nowhere, man.
You know, some slang talk, you know, some new era shit.
You ain't nowhere, man.
You know what I'm saying, gotta cut it short right there like, you ain't nowhere.
Yeah they ain't nowhere, man, you know what I'm saying.
Yeah you used it right, you ain't- they ain't nowhere, you know what I'm saying, cause it'd be tighter if they was up  twenty-four  thirteen, you know what I'm saying.
You know.