RD-NAME-3 and today's date is the seventh.
I was born on October tenth, nineteen ninety seven.
I grew up  in Kenilworth.
Yes.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
It's in Pennsylvania.
Well I wanna do two things.
First I wanna  be a athletic trainer,  like phy- do physical therapy with the sports  cause I like sports.
And then I want to do  like mass communications, radio broadcasting.
Cause I like to talk.
Yes.
My mom, she used to work  at RD-WORK-2.
It's like a maternity home where people that get abused and stuff go.
And then now she work at RD-WORK-3 with- for like special needs children.
Um, they do like different activities,  and- No, they don't stay there.
It's just like a day camp, yeah.
I'm not sure.
It's- No.
It's all ages cause it's babies  and  you know,  uh- No, not adults.
Like kids.
Yeah, but at RD-WORK-2, yeah.
It used to be like-  like that.
Teen moms and  for people that's like my age that got abused and stuff, like different stuff happened.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, they live there.
They live there at RD-SCHOOL-2.
They live there.
All the children live there.
My dad  um-  He work for Home Depot.
That's all I know.
Yes.
Cause I just wanna get, you know, get out of DC like I don't wanna be here.
And uh just to try something new and- Yeah,  and see something new.
Don't  be around the same people a lot.
Meet new people.
For fourteen years.
Yes, I lived on RD-ADDRESS-4 Street in Southeast.
Yeah.
Oh I live in a house.
But  what about it?
Oh it's just me and m- oh nah, it's me- It's just me and my mom.
I'm the only child.
Uh- I be talking to my mother,  but she be getting on my nerves sometimes you know.
Oh yeah I'm really close with like-  I like to get  people involved  in different activities that we be having.
Cause at the rental office, and my mother the vice president,  so like she just do stuff in the community  like pass out fliers  for different events we might have and stuff.
And I'm like the team advocate, as you could say, yeah.
Since my mother the vice president.
Yeah, I get the youth involved like anything- Like I said, anything- any event that we have,  like a movie night, I try to get teens to come.
Even for RD-WORK-3, like, you know, what I work with for the summer?
I try to get people,  but a lot of stuff,  they don't want to do.
Oh it's a summer program.
Like,  it's sposta be for people that live in the DC  housing  sections.
Like  Sursum Corda  Kenilworth, all the- all around, whoever's under DC housing,  and it's like for the youth so you can get a- you- the youth so you can get a job with them.
Yeah.
We get work- We work for them instead of like SYEP?
We work for them.
SYEP is for- is for all workers.
RD-SCHOOL-3 is only for  people that live under DC housing properties.
No, teenagers.
You got- Yeah.
Teenagers, and the ages stop at eighteen.
Yes.
Do-  No.
Well my f-  Well, I used to go here.
So  I wanted to always work- like work for s- for the- for the summer job.
And  my first year, I did sign up with SYP  and RD-WORK-3 just in case I don't get the job  cause I didn't know  nothing about it?
You know what I'm saying?
So I ain't know nothing about it, so my mother's like, you know, go to SYP, sign up for them  just in case.
But I had got the job, and then  we had to do  three interviews at different places.
And one was here  then another one might be somewhere else like  RD-WORK-4, or-  Yeah, different organization- And we do interviews.
We had to get- get the interviews done.
We had to call 'em.
Like a real job, we had to call them and stuff,  and say- and set up a interview.
You know.
And then you go to the interviews,  and then after that we come back to like a workshop, and then they tell us where they gonna place us at.
And uh- Yeah.
D- Depending on what  the um,  company has said about you.
You know what I'm saying?
Cause they got to do evaluations s- sheet for us, for each interview we go on.
Oh, no.
No they didn't give me no feedback, no.
They just wrote it on a paper, so they can give to Housing.
Four.
Four years.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, about eleven years.
Yeah.
Since I was little.
Yes I- Yes, I was here.
I went to Camp Brown oh, everything.
Yup.
Um, I liked that Camp Brown.
Yeah, my first time I was scared though.
Cause of the-  cause of the little old man clutching stuff.
Yeah, I was scared.
Yeah, I r- I was ready to go home.
I was crying.
I was ready to- Yeah.
Yeah.
I was scared, but after awhile I- I got used to it, and then I kept going back.
Like  two years.
I ain't go that long.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yes.
My- my mother- my- I mean my grandmother.
No.
She live in Roanoke.
Mm- She come here, like- She come here every year  for my birthday.
October tenth.
Yeah, like if I have something.
Yeah, I'm'a come home.
Yeah.
On the weekends probably.
It's not that far!
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yup.
Northeast.
East Capitol.
By Stadium Armory.
Yeah, I liked it.
So you can know, like,  you support- y- you supporting your school,  and  that's just like  a memory  like that you went to that high school.
Yeah, sometimes they be like, you a traitor, you know.
You going to that school.
Like, you're just going to this school, that school.
Like, just stay at one school.
Oh yeah, Ballou.
Ballou.
Cause of they band.
Yeah.
We have a good band though.
Yeah.
No.
I played volleyball and ran track.
I did the a hundred meter,  and then I did like  most of the field events.
Yeah and then volleyball I did it for four years.
Yup.
No, I didn't get no scholarship for that.
Yeah.
No, I'm trying to get some money for scholarship.
Like more scholarship money.
Cause it's not-  it's not enough.
It's something.
Something better than nothing.
No, I liked school.
Um,  I didn't like Math.
That's the only thing.
And I like Science.
Cause it was just too much.
Like, it was certain stuff, you know, you d- like I didn't know.
So I always like,  needed help,  but my volleyball coach was my math teacher, so  I went to Power Hour with her,  and then went to practice.
So you had to go to Power Hour in order for you to go to practice.
Mm-hm.
A two point oh, yeah.
Yeah, above that.
Like two point s- it was- it was close to three point oh.
It was like two point seven seven.
Just Science cause I like doing hands on stuff.
Like the experiments.
Um,  I don't know.
I can't even remember.
But- N- Mm-mm.
Yeah, or help RD-NAME-3.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's my- Yeah.
That's my job.
I can, yeah.
If they need me- I tell 'em that like, if you all need me, I'll go down there with the kid cause I don't mind helping.
I like the kids too, so- Yeah.
Some of 'em.
No.
Um, my aunt.
My aunt.
All my aunts.
Yeah, all of 'em.
Um,  my grandma, th- those her sisters so there's about like four of 'em.
No, we- we never had that.
Never did.
That I know of.
We should,  but we d- d- We do have like  dinners.
No, they all for like special events like Thanksgiving.
Yeah.
No, we go to my aunt house.
She- Well, she just moved to Metro Towns  close to where I live at.
It- Yeah, it's- it's by um, Mayfairs across the street.
So my mother Oh so my mother moving too now.
She moving.
Before- Part- Before I leave.
Yeah I still live in Kenilworth.
Yeah.
Same place.
Yeah, close.
Yeah.
Yeah, we already got our address and stuff, but like she's supposed to be moving.
Yeah I go to First Baptist Church of Glenarden.
But it's Zion, we just in there.
Largo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  I don't even know how long.
For awhile.
Cause my- um, my god mother  uh-  They started there,  and we started from the other campus.
It still- it still was in Largo, but it was like in the office buildings.
That's what we started at,  and then we got a new place.
And that's where we at now.
Yeah, it's bigger.
Yeah, it's bigger.
Yeah, it's a lot of members.
Yeah.
No, they gonna s- They probably gonna keep that.
Our pastor, he cool with the other one- Cause there's two of 'em.
First Baptist Church of Glenarden, uh, the Worship Center.
I forgot where is that one at.
It's not too far.
I don- I guess.
It's like- It's big.
It's bigger than us.
Oh yeah?
Yeah, that's where we have MERGE at.
That's where we have MERGE at.
The little teen Go go.
Gospel Go go thingy.
Yeah, that's what we have.
That's where we have MERGE at,  like awhile ago, when I was going.
But n- soun- Since now I'm gonna move,  it-  it'd be at the um,  the other campus  in Largo.
Not really, no.
I'll listen to it, yeah.
I'll listen to it.
I like R and B.
All R and B.
Yeah.
But it's just like, the beat.
Sometimes it just get irritating.
Yeah, it just be getting irritating.
Yeah.
Um,  where I go?
Like when I-  young,  I went to the DC Stars.
It's- It was like this young go go thing.
Like bands come  or did.
And- It don't matter.
It was all ages.
And Ibiza.
Ibiza.
The Ibiza night club.
It's on  First Street.
I think First and K.
It's close to DC housing.
Yeah,  quarters.
Oh.
Yeah.
Um, I don't have a lot of friends.
I mean, I got school friends  that went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah, that's it.
And only person that I  really talk to in my neighborhood is RD-NAME-2.
Yup.
Yup.
No, we- Nah, we met in the neighborhood like, it was a long time ago,  when we was young.
No, that's my best friend.
Around Kenilworth .
Yeah, you know how you just meet neighbors- neighbors.
We just started as neighbors.
And then we started playing with each other cause I ain't- We- We ain't had no friends when we was little either.
And no- And nobody was really around there for real.
It was like all  grown ups and then people moved out and then-  Yeah.
But I miss the old Kenilworth.
It was like- You know,  it wasn't too much drama.
Like now, it's just people moved in, and  this is too much.
Fighting.
Everything.
No, it's not.
No- It's guns, fighting, whatever you- you name- you can think of, that's what they doing around there.
It's just, sometimes it be a little quiet,  like the street be quiet, but other times, I don't know what be going on.
And then really my mother be like,  you know.
I'm just walking around- just walking around.
Cause I like walking, so I be walking around Kenilworth.
Like, ain't nobody gonna do nothing to me.
I'm from here,  and they know me.
So, what they gonna do?
Um.
Yeah.
Yeah, we do.
Well, you- you never know what could happen, so.
The out- Yeah, outside, yeah.
Starting stuff.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
Either somebody did something from our neighborhood to them,  or they did something to us.
I don't know.
For them to come around and,  like, either shoot up the place, or what.
Cause- Yeah,  I mea-  I don't- I wouldn't know.
Cause-  anything could happen at any time, so  it could be one day-  you never know.
I could just walk and- No.
No, I never- No, cause you can't- you can't get scared cause you don't know.
You don't- You don't know what could happen.
Cause if you scared, then there's no point in me going outside.
Or walking.
Yeah, so it's just like,  go ahead.
Go outside.
No.
I catch the bus, yeah.
I mean I walk to Minnesota from my house, but not  to um-  Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Yeah, like, i- say if I'm on Minnesota and this bus is taking long I'll walk up here.
That's not that far.
Or I'll walk from my house to Minnesota and then get on the bus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I ain't doing that.
Oh, yeah I worked at um-  Well, now-  Not now, like last year.
I started working at RD-WORK-5.
It's on St.
Barnabas Road, like you can have different parties and stuff.
Yeah.
But we do outside events cause it's the moon bounce and stuff.
Like moon bounce, ice cream machine, all that.
Cotton candy machine.
This- I mean, this like a side.
Yeah.
Yeah, so it's like a side hustle, basically.
Like-  I-  I could work with the kids, and then I wanna do something else too.
Everybody did tell me that.
Like,  I'm'a be a teacher.
But I don't see myself as a teacher.
Um, just getting  my grades up  and  meeting new people.
Leaving here.
Even though I want to get away.
Um,  cause I been here  for all my life.
Like,  it's just something new  to me.
Starting off somewhere fresh.
I- I think it's little.
I- I have, but it's like I just- Yeah, just the college, not like, all around.
I mean they got a shuttle bus to take us places, so- I won't have my car until next year.
It is like a city.
It is.
No, it's not like DC.
They keep talking about this is like, the suburbs.
No, it's not.
Uh, like a rural area .
Like, it is not like that.
Cause when I've been, I didn't see it like that.
Like, you know, like you're on a farm or something, no.
It looks like city.
It's like city city,  to me.
It's not the same, but it's like, city.
It's st- stores.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying!
It's stores like, right across the street, or  not that far.
And then, Walmart is twenty minutes away, so come on.
Yes!
I don't know.
I do drink Starbucks.
Well I don't know.
I don't know.
It might.
Where the stores at, the Mall or something.
I need to know where the Mall at.
N- n-  I know-  I know where Walmart at.
That's twenty minutes away.
And the shuttle bus take you.
You know, cause your first year you can't have no car.
Yeah.
But if you do, like- like say fall,  and I get like a- you know, like a certain grade point average, I think you can have it.
You know what I'm saying?
So like your first year-  Yeah, basically.
So the fall semester, I might be- After the fall semester, I might be able to bring my car for the spring, and the rest of the- the years.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Cause I- Cause, it's like-  like a little si- like a sister  to me.
Yeah, like a sister- Not little, but you get what I'm saying.
Like a sister.
Nah, this- I don't know.
I'm not sure.
I think it's like,  black and white.
It's not just-  It is a HBCU, but it's Yeah, it's mostly black, but they- they said it's- it's some- it's some white people.
Yeah.
In DC?
Uh, no, I don't see it.
I don't see it.
I mean sometimes, yeah.
Like when we go to the store or something.
Like,  they might think-  Oh,  I'm a girl though.
They might still think I'm about to take some- something in the store.
Like, you know- Not white people, but it be like other like,  Ethiopian.
Them Ethiopian people do the same thing.
Like at them Seven Elevens.
They be thinking you about to steal.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean- I'm not sure because I haven't like,  been at like,  the stores that you just- Like, wherever that you just named?
I haven't been like to stores in that area.
I'm not sure,  but  it be like Chipotle or something.
They-  Sometimes they do it.
Sometimes they don't.
Like-  Like if you aks them for  extra cheese or whatever, at Chipotle, they be getting mad.
Just put it on my- in my bowl!
For real!
Chipotle.
Anywhere.
Anywhere.
The Mexicans.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause I was arguing with the lady.
The Mexican.
Nah it was- This is something- This is- This is something else.
Like, about this salad dressing.
She talking about she gonna charge me  for the salad dressing.
I said, if you get a bowl, you don't have to pay.
I'm getting a bowl.
You don't have to pay.
Talking about, told me it was a dollar.
And why I gave her the dollar like,  I aksed- This is at Eastern Market.
I aksed,  you know, the people that was sitting down.
I said, did you have to pay for your salad dressing?
She was like, no.
I went back up there.
I said, ma'am,  they just told me that  I didn't have to pay for it,  so what-  why did I have to pay for the salad dressing?
She talking about some, it's a dollar.
It's a dollar.
I said, no.
They didn't pay for it,  so give me my money back.
Why I look-  Like, you know how you just- Cause like, the cashier, you can be like, on the side.
I look on the side, I see the dollar still sitting right there.
So you didn't even put it in the-  in the drawer.
You was gonna pocket it.
Yeah.
I knew she was- she was probably gonna pocket it, cause how come you ain't put it in the drawer yet?
The drawer had been opened, you know a couple of times.
Since th- Since I had been talked to- Since I was talking to the lady,  I know it had been opened a couple times cause people was leaving out ,  you know, with they- with they food.
So why didn't you put the dollar in the drawer yet?
Whatchu- Whatchu was doing?
Or gave it to the cashier.
Yeah.
All cause the salad dressing.
And they put me out and everything.
Yes.
Cause I was, you know, in the store like, I didn't have to pay for this.
No, it was just that day.
Cause I was still going back and forth-  No.
In the- No.
No, I go places cause of- No, you don't want to stay around Kenilworth all day.
There's nothing around there for real.
Uh, Eastern Market,  um,  Union Station, like in the area by my school basically.
That's the only places I really like, hang out.
Union Station got stores in there!
Like Victoria Secret.
Everything.
McDonald's, all that.
Chipotle, Pot Belly.
All that is in there.
Yeah, like, when- when I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, I used to hang out there all the time.
Cause it's like right there.
Yeah, RD-SCHOOL-2, it's a middle school.
Yeah.
I used to go right there to Union Station,  like every day.
Yeah.
That's the hang out.
Yup, Eastern Market.
Yeah, I'm a- I go for food.
Chipotle.
Popeyes.
And then I used to work right there too.
RD-WORK-4.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
Yeah.
Yeah by the Subway and Metro Station, like- Oh, it's right there?
Oh yeah !
I know where Dunkin Donuts at.
Oh.
It must be on the side.
Oh.
Oh yeah.
Red velvet.
Or like chocolate chip or something.
But I know I went to this cupcake place- I forgot the name of it.
But it was in New York.
We had j- We was just walking- You know me.
I stopped there and, I'm like, ooh, let's go in here.
And then it was like Mother's Day weekend,  you know, when we went to New York.
So I was like, let me go in here f-  see if I can see something for my mother cause you can s- you can have the cupcakes for about- No, that was just for um, Image Makers when we went to New York.
So yeah,  we went in the cupcake place, and it had this big tray.
And it was little- They was little teeny cupcakes.
Yeah, so I liked that.
It start with a M.
I c- I think it's called Melissa.
Yeah it is Melissa.
Oh, I'm not sure.
Yeah.
By Macy's.
Small.
Yeah.
It's called Melissa!
Yeah that- Yeah.
Yeah, I got- I got three.
And I was just trying 'em.
And then I bought the little big tray, and it come with a nice little box and it had like,  rainbow- like a little rainbow thingy.
Yeah.
I had the chocolate chip one.
It was like cotton candy one  and red velvet.
Red velvet.
It was good.
The chocolate chip one was real good.
Nice and soft.
Oh yeah, that sound good.
I should have gotten it.
Yeah it was three dollars for mine there.
I think it was a dollar-  or- Well-  Oh yeah, I know.
Three dollars.
It is small.
Oh yeah, I like Friday's.
Friday's.
I like the mozzarella sticks .
Yeah.
Oh, yeah the Jack Daniel's sauce, I be getting a- a Jack Daniel's sampler.
It come with the chicken, the shrimp,  and then, ribs.
Yup.
It bomb Uh-huh.
Yeah.
It be good.
And the fries!
I be dipping my fries in there.
Yeah, Friday's bomb.