Twenty eight.
Uh, Washington DC.
Uh,  I mean I probably gotta say just the-  the culture that it has and  how it's different from different places.
Just, uh,  every time I go out of town- I've been out of town  people always show me a lot of love, like,  from me being from  Washington DC, like,  it's a different re- it's a respect that come with it.
Just that's what I feel.
Uh, I mean just like- just  the way they, uh, carry yourselves.
Um,  most people from DC they like to,  uh, be dressed nice, have nice things.
Like, hold up a, uh,  a image of being successful,  you know,  so.
Whether they're successful or not.
Uh, the image.
They gonna look the part.
The image- the image I think is what it is.
It's- it's more so-  In some situations, I think it's the image that people try to uphold.
It's like a- a area where it's dog eat dog  and everybody  tryna be on the top.
But I- that's just my opinion of it.
Uh, I mean to be honest with you I just think it's,  uh,  it's a lack of communications amongst people  from the same area but just different parts of the area.
Like for instance,  it can be one neighborhood over here  that  might not like a neighborhood over here for no reason at all,  and it separates them so  I mean it makes them wanna  have a little bit more than this neighborhood.
Be seen better,  well- when, uh, nicer cars and nicer clothes  than the people from  where you rival.
You know, so it's like a-  I guess like a competition thing  and everybody trying to just  have their image of being  at the top.
Not necessarily.
Yeah.
Yeah the neighbor- the neighborhood is definitely not rich.
I mean everybody tryna make a way,  uh, just, you know, working regular jobs for the most part.
Not overly educated, you know.
A lot of people  drop out of school  or, uh,  you know, just- I- I think what it is is that DC got a, uh,  a real street,  like, legacy that comes with it from  like when my generation,  like, selling drugs, the persona of selling drugs,  and the amount of money that was made by drug dealers in the area  has left like a-  a lingering effect  on the community, in my opinion,  for even to- today, you know?
A lot of money was made selling drugs so it's always gonna looked at- be looked at as something that's  prosperous.
And what comes with drug dealing is- I mean I-  From what I've heard,  drug dealers  profited millions of dollars  in- in the DC area  for sure.
I mean, whether how long the stint was,  a lot of people was making money selling drugs  in the eighties, I know for sure.
That's just from what my family told me from, you know, seeing it for my own two eyes what  my uncles doing drugs and different things, so  like I done seen it in myself,  the- the drug effect and on fl- on both sides of it, so.
I mean,  of course it's- it's just- hearing it is crazy, but  it's- it's not really too surprising  because  once I really started seeing, like,  what the drugs,  like the amount of drugs that they were sending people away for,  which was a small amount,  like point five  is giving people ten and twenty years in jail.
That's not a lot of- that's not a lot  on the street.
That- that's not a lot at all, so  just seeing that  I had already seen that they wasn't playing no games with the black community.
They was pressing down.
It's like, if this is what you gonna do,  these the years you facing.
And it's like,  for them to push it  in the neighborhood,  it's like almost like,  it's crazy.
It's like- it's like you going into a trap.
It's like wha- what is-  it's like, somebody holding cheese out in front of a mouse.
It's like, what you gonna do?
Like,  they playing with you.
It's- you know?
That's how I really feel.
Like, they playing with you.
And they know  your situations is not the best  and  puss plass-  plus the past influences  of other successful drug dealers,  you know, that's gonna play a part too.
So it's- it's all- it's- it's crazy.
I- I really do- I- It's crazy.
It's like being put in a box.
And man, I just feel like it's like being in a box.
Yeah.
Um,  well my mother, she, uh,  she was from West Virginia.
Well she was born in West Virginia but she moved here  to DC, uh, to Southeast,  when she was a little girl  before I think she was one.
So she grew up  going to schools  in DC and having to walk  going to school from different places.
Um,  my father, he-  his-  his family,  uh, my grandfather originally from Baltimore but  like my mother, he moved here at a young age and he grew up  in Southeast not too far, um,  or off of Alabama Avenue  in the Congress- Congress Heights, Congress Park area,  uh, Southeast.
Um, so they-  they grew up there,  and, um,  yeah, and my mother, she just-  she's striving as a-  a- a struggling black woman grow up in the city just  getting a job to  make way,  you know, so.
I mean I guess they-  For the most part, they- they've been successful  well, for coming from the environment  that they was-  they was in cause I seen way worse.
So,  now she got her  single family home,  she living comfortably.
So, I guess it's-  she's successful to a certain standard.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
I mean friendship-  a friendship is a-  I think growing up when you all dealing with the same type of situations,  you kind of like, look to your friends for a bond  cause you- you know, everybody going through the same thing so you try and find little ways to  have fun and,  you know,  experience the things as a kid that you wanna do.
So it's like,  you develop strong little ties and bonds to people in you- in the neighborhood,  so I w- I will say yeah, we was close  for the most part.
But   also in the neighborhoods you have certain families that don't like each other,  so certain- certain people you probably wouldn't be cool with if  y'all families had a history of not liking each other, stuff like that though.
Well now I- I really feel like, um,  they kind of like pushing the black communities.
That's been popular  for decades.
They kind of like,  pushing 'em down.
Like even in the area that my family grew up in and I grew up in- Yeah, they- they- they-  they knocking down all of the projects.
They bringing up new houses.
It's-  I'm starting to see different races living on streets that you never would thought you would see,  uh, races walking on, so,  um, I-  I mean I- a lot of time-  lot- A lot of people being pushed out into Maryland  from DC too, so  that's a part of it.
I mean I don't- To be honest with you- Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I mean, i- i-  it's-  uh-  Once you start seeing things in a big picture, it's-  everything is just mind blowing at- at  the process of what's taking place like,  for them to come and just take your family's history of- or where you been at,  and then come and make it theirs.
I mean they- it's- that's still happening now, uh, like,  that's been, like, going on for-  well, for many years.
But it just crazy that- how it's hitting home.
Like here, like, you can feel it in  today's age  how  things was  fifteen years ago the neighborhoods and how it was, it's just  it's different now.
Like now those neighborhoods got  big houses and town houses and  shopping centers that was built up, that was never built up back when the families was living there.
Now it's- it's all these different conveniences,  um, being applied to these neighborhoods  now  and it's just- it's crazy  that they raised the price so we can't even take advantage of  the conveniences  of the neighborhoods we grew up in.
Yeah.
Um- Well  well a place that I would recommend, first I'd say,  is always like going to the wharf,  um, in DC.
Just all-  Even from a kid going there  to now, I always just liked the whole idea of being able to go  get fresh seafood from a place where it just  the atmosphere itself is just something different I always like about,  uh, Washington DC, going down to the wharf.
But, um,  a lot of- a lot of different places  that's now-  Um,  a lot of different places  from when I was growing up have been changed.
I- Not all for the bad.
Um,  I remember, um, a library  that I used to go to as a kid on Alabama Avenue,  um,  they redid it- redid the library and  just a little area, different area,  um, different things around the area.
They plug up- put up recreation centers and  put in some new fields.
So I mean it is some progress in certain neighborhoods but  for the most part  all of the progress is  being shown in neighborhoods that  the original people who lived there don't even live no more.
Like they already been pushed out,  so they don't even get to see this stuff.
But, um,  yeah, like little stuff just as a kid that I remember going to different places has changed.
Um,  like I said, like the- the library I used to go to,  um, different p- like shopping centers been knocked down and,  um, different things been built up.
So I mean it's- it's a lot of things that's changed,  um,  but I- Oh, I do s- I do feel like no matter how much  they- the, um, changing of building, I think the- the city itself is always gonna be  like, unique.
Uh, just the people  that come from the city,  um,  they- they got a real- like a real headstrong  mentality for the most part.
And, um,  I think it's always gonna have a unique-  uh, it's always gonna be a unique place to live or be at.
Yeah.
Well back then we used to always be like-  I don't know.
I think back then  the words  like like  we were saying back then like, you tripping.
Like that's- that was when it f- first originated.
Some of the stuff still go on today.
Like, uh- Yeah, like you hear, uh.
moe.
I been hearing moe  and- It's just like a-   It's crazy.
It's just like-  Uh, I guess it's more of an expression.
Like they say k-  like I always hear kill moe.
It's like- it- it's- it's like basically saying, uh,  you surprised about something or,  uh,  you- It's like really.
It's like almost aksing like really?
Know what I'm saying?
Uh, like, what you- like you- It's something that you can't really  believe when you first hear.
Kill moe.
Or something that's just crazy.
Like if you was to call me, be like, uh,  be like, man, I just got in a car accident.
And you be like, uh, I can't believe this.
And I be like, kill moe.
That's crazy.
I can't believe you got in a car accident neither.
It's just-  it's just a- like an expression to something-  a reaction to something that happened.
Alright.
Or- Yeah, or- or some people just be like kill.
Like that's crazy- Instead of saying that's crazy, they be like kill.
You know, like if you hear something  like  like something happened in the news or something, be like  kill.
Like, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah yeah.
For the most part, my uncles,  uh, they all live in the area.
You know, they all branched out,  um, to like PG County.
I still got a couple cousins that live,  uh, in Southeast.
Um, they got a couple apartments over there.
But  for the most part, they knocked down the neighborhood and changed it around.
Like, in-  for the most section of it.
Uh, they left some of 'em up though.
But yeah, I still got cousins that live- live in the city.
Grandmother live in the city.
Yeah, I always been close to my grandparents, my grandmother and my grandfather.
They live off Southern Avenue.
That's Southeast too.
They actually built a train station.
When I grew up around there, I spent a lot of years at my grandmother house cause we live with her for- for a couple years  right there, um,  on Southern Avenue.
And at first when I was growing up,  we ain't have no train station across the street.
Like now it's a- a whole train system across the street, MetroGo.
Train stop right across the street from her house that you can walk to.
But as a kid, we ain't- we didn't have that right there.
Yeah.
Yeah, it'd have been tight.
But now they got it over there so the- the kids who growing up they get to go there.
Yeah, tight is, yeah.
Tight is, um,  just like an expression just saying something that's like, uh-  Like you know how, uh, you hear people say, that's awesome?
Like that's-  You know what I mean?
It's expressing something that's good.
Like that's tight, is basically saying- Yeah like it's just in different, you know what I'm saying, a- areas, you gonna see-  you gonna hear awesome or you gonna hear, oh that's tight.
You know, that's tight is something that's good.
So.
Yeah I got a-  I got a, um, two brothers,  three sisters.
But  my mother and my father, they had three children together, so  that's who I grew up- that's the household I grew up with.
My brother,  me being the youngest, my older brother and my older sister.
That's the household I grew up in.
And, um, for the most part.
But yeah, I got a, um-  my brother, he work.
He, um-  he's out here living, growing through,  you know, city every day.
He, um- My sister, she live at Waldorf though, so she don't- she don't live in the city no more.
I got, um,  three nephews and a niece.
And they all live around Waldorf too.
But yeah, I got, um, I got a lot of family in this area though.
You know, us growing up in this area, we got a lot of places,  uh, different memories and different places we go to.
Like,  um,  for us, being in the city, going to, uh,  like, uh, well now, it's called Six Flags but we used to go to Adventure World.
And that was like a big trip for us back in the day.
And now it's a- Yeah.
Well now it's called Six Flags.
It's in, um,  in Largo.
But it used to be called- It actually was called Wild World.
When we was kids coming up we used to go there.
It was like a big deal.
And then it was turned into Adventure World.
And they turned it into, uh, Six Flags.
But it's still there but it's just seeing like the name changes and  the rides and everything as a kid, going there now  and seeing it now, it's just crazy.
You know what I'm saying?
Coming from a kid that was like a big deal to us going over there.
So.
Uh, Wild World.
I don't know, man.
I don't- Cause I can remember going to Wild World at- Cause that's when it was like, first-  That's when I first was going as a kid, but  I don't remember it being nothing that was reference to wild.
I don't know if they associating that with fun or what, but  when I wo- went there when it was called Adventure World,  I mean I- Even then they didn't have no rides or nothing.
They had like a old wild west  little story play they used to have going.
But, you know, that was the only thing.
I don't know why it was called Adventure World neither,  you know?
I don't know if that was just a name they was- they cam- I don't- I can't even be honest- I don't even know.
They ain't never had no animals up there  or nothing like that,  so.
That's what it was called though.
No I don't got no kid.
Uh,  mm-mm.
I don't know.
We, uh,  well my mo- my family, we always, uh,  take birthdays very serious.
Um,  like kind of more than holidays a little bit.
Like when it's a person's birthday, we kind of like,  always come together.
Uh,  get a cake or make something, have a little meal or something.
Just to come together, celebrate.
Or go out to eat or something, celebrate whoever birthday it is.
Just like in our immediate family.
Like, uh,  me, my brother, sister, my mother,  we all- that's how  we do- Uh, I guess  for my kids, I- I will do the same thing.
Make sure they know their birthdays is something special.
That was something my mother always made feel special for me.
And even to this day, like me getting older, like she'll still be like where you wanna go out to eat after your birthday, so.
I- I think probably-  probably about the birthday.
I keep that birthday tradition going.
Yeah, yeah.
Cause now it's so many distractions out here  that people don't even  come together as a family.
Just  different beliefs can separate a family.
You know, one person what they believe in,  they don't even look at the other family member the same.
They don't even see 'em as their sister or brother.
They just only see 'em by what they believe in, and it's different from what they believe in.
So a lot of time- Yeah.
Yeah like if you going to get- Yeah, it's just like the- If you not walking the same type of  belief that we walking there, then  you not gonna have that  relationship.
Like they- it's-  it's- like it's a-  Uh, that's what I'm saying.
It's a distraction that keeps a division between family.
Like a lot of times people, um,  in like the church, be closer to their church family than their real families.
Because they feel like the people who are there in the church with, they relate to better cause they have the same belief.
And they'll do- Um,  to be honest with you I just- I just believe  there is a higher power  and  I- I mean beyond that,  I'm still searching for any- or everything else,  all of the- you know, I don't really have a belief far as a religion.
Like I don't have a religion that I could be like oh I'm this or that.
I don't even wanna label myself as such  cause I don't even wanna box myself in to only being able to  go or obtain knowledge  in this box right here.
I wanna be able to  have knowledge on everything.
I don't wanna box myself in.
You know what I'm saying?
So- Yeah I-  Yeah yeah.
I don't- I don't wanna have to be confined to restrictions of  different things just by somebody's belief or pretty much offer their opinions.
You know?
And a lot of people are boxed in  by just  believing somebody else's opinion,  to be honest with you.
That's what I honestly feel.
Like  well my family-  my fam- my- growing up- my, uh-   my grandmother's side is r- real religious, uh,  Apostolic  Pentecostal,  which is under the Christian  like of a doctrine I guess.
But  growing up,  it was real strict on my mother's side  with different things.
Like  the church my grandmother went to, the women couldn't wear dresses.
And- I mean they couldn't wear, uh, pants.
They had to wear only dresses that came past their knees  and, um- But yeah, they had to, uh-  it was just real real strict little restrictions.
Like  based on the beliefs  and my grandmother's father was a pastor, so  she was really  locked in on Christianity and-