I lived in DC but I was born in Prince George's County.
Um, Langston Place.
Formerly known as Woodland.
Huh?
No.
Um,  I'm twenty-five, so, for twenty-three years.
Germany for two years.
My father's in the military.
Yeah.
Um, all the schools?
Elementary RD-SCHOOL-7.
Uh, for middle school RD-SCHOOL-2, and for high school RD-SCHOOL-4.
Oh,  and college RD-SCHOOL-3.
I'm a food service worker at RD-WORK-9.
Mm- sh- my mother was born- I think she was born here.
But she moved around a lot, and my dad was born in Mississippi.
Um, my dad is- he's still in the military.
Um, and he's a regional manager for Home Depot.
M- No, he was in reserve but he just went back to active.
Yeah.
Um, and my mom is a retired government employee.
No I'm not.
That's my thinking, like I'm really trying to think.
My first home I would say was around- What was the name of them apartments?
I cannot remember the name of the apartments.
But basically it was like a real hood like people got shot in the neighborhood, people were killed in the neighborhood,  heard gunshots all the time, we weren't allowed to go outside.
And things like that.
I wanna remember the neighbor- this is like one of those neighborhoods everyone knows but I can't remember, so we lived around there for a while.
Then my mom- I'm not sure why she moved I don't know if she got put out or she just wanted to move,  I just know we packed up all our things put it into storage and we moved with my grandmother in  Woodland, which is Langston Place.
And  we lived around RD-ADDRESS-3  for a long time probably about ten years then my mom got a house,  um,  cause my dad had left.
My dad had left and  he was  probably in another country somewhere, but them two weren't getting along and my mom was still pregnant with his-  they had a baby- she was pregnant but they weren't  so she got pregnant with my  brother but they were broken up.
So he was  out of the country my mom is just  taking care of us, th- herself.
And, then-  we li- we moved in a house on Massachusetts Avenue, we stayed there for about  seven years.
I know she got put out of that.
It was like, um,  yeah so we had to move back to RD-SCHOOL-2 with my grandmother.
I have two older sisters and one little brother.
That's- Yes, um,  yeah we did.
My  s- okay I have a older sister that's-  she's about eight years older than me.
And I have another sister that's six years older than me.
My sister that's six years older than me she was like one of those like trouble kids.
So it was like every time she'd get in trouble my mom would say, okay, you gotta go to your grandmother's, so she's just like back and forth.
That was about it, other than that yeah we all lived together.
Played with my sisters.
Yeah in the house.
Mm-hm.
Once we moved to Woodland which is strange she had- that's when she allowed us to go outside though,  around Woodland cause we had family members that lived around there.
So Woodland was like a  I had my aunt, uncles, all lived there before they all branched off and moved to like Maryland  and other places.
Woodland.
People yeah, because these were people that we'd known, like e- although it was a very unsafe neighborhood it was just like, it was more familiar.
Like, we knew these people they wouldn't hurt us and things like that.
They did things to other people but they wouldn't do it to us.
Um- My first elementary school was RD-SCHOOL-4, um, my grandmother was a teacher there, so  she took us back and forth to RD-SCHOOL-4.
Um,  that was in North- I think RD-SCHOOL-4's in Northwest.
I don't even know how I was able to go there because we lived in Southeast but I think because my grandmother,  so yeah, but  I don't remember much about RD-SCHOOL-4.
RD-SCHOOL-2 I remember a lot, um, that's when the nine eleven  happened so I remember being in class with that.
School shut, my mom came and got me.
I didn't know what was going on,  and I think  as a child and probably now it was just like, okay.
Somebody- I- I was just always nonchalant about it like, okay somebody just  took a plane and,  like I was never sad about it like, I don't know why but- I guess I didn't- because it was no one that I knew.
It was just like another current event on the news, so.
Yeah so it was just like I saw everybody else saying thing- things like that was just like,  what was your rush for coming to get me like, we were playing in school, like,  like, some- So.
But I'm still like that to this day like, I don't know why I'm like that but it's just-  Things that everybody else can be crying about, I'm like, girl, like, it's not that serious, like,  so.
Uh-huh.
I would sa- n- I still wasn't messed up to the- but I was like- I would say like the- the most that ever hit me  was RD-NAME-2 passing away like I've been-  I've been molested before and it still- when that happened I was just like,  okay, like,  he did this, okay what's next?
And that was it.
But I wasn't like, oh my god, like, my world's ruined and- no.
Never was like that.
So.
Mm-hm.
I hated going to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Because it was the neighborhood school and I wasn't supposed to go to RD-SCHOOL-2, I was supposed to- during this time my mom was getting- cause I had  a niece  and a brother they're the same age so my mom and my sister were pregnant at the same time.
And so  my mom was trying to transfer all us to a private school so they- their scholarship had went through, they had started pro- my scholarship was still in the process so,  she was like, you can just go to RD-SCHOOL-2 for one year and then the next year,  um,  we'll c-  continue doing the payment so you can go, and I was like, I don't wanna go to school, this is a neighborhood school, like,  I-  the kids were rough to me like, you know, I didn't know how it was gonna go but it ended up being a great experience.
Like in the beginning I was like, I don't wanna go to this school, but my mom was like, well there's no other options, but I ended up loving it.
But in the beginning I was like, I don't wanna go to this school.
Cause it was neighborhoods like w- they were rough,  like, I didn't wanna go there.
Oh why'd I li-  I think because it was so hood.
Right, you know how you- like it- I- my- my childhood was, uh, it was like-  My mom- and it's- it's like I am now with my sons like, I live in a hood, but it's like you try your best to No, you try your best to pr- cause I have two others- I m- I have two sons.
They're five and seven.
So you try your best to like, protect them from that.
Like although my kids in the hood,  I-  they don't feel like they're in the hood.
So that was my mom's thing like, we're in the hood but you don't have to-  I'm not gonna treat you like you're in the hood, you don't have to talk like this, you know so, it's just like, although we in the hood I try my best to like,  still show you the nice part of life.
So it was like that with my mom.
So.
Like anything a person making a hundred K a year,  I'm able to do that.
So I take them on trips, you know, I show them nice things I get 'em out here,  I buy them nice clothes and stuff like that so you won't-  there- there's always food on the table, there's always-  Like I've been without electricity, um,  that's a-  that was another story.
I don't even know if y'all know that.
Okay my- I had a- I've been on my own since I was seventeen.
Had my first place when I was eighteen.
So I experienced having no lights  in my- in my first apartment.
I was like, oh no we're never gonna be there, no ma'am, my lights are never gonna get cut off again like that.
So it was like things like that I don't ever wanna experience again.
And like with my oldest son, we went like from house to house to house to house before and I was like, oh we're never gonna be without a house.
And then it was like,  I gotta make sure we always have our own place so it was like stuff like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Yeah I got charley horse.
Uh-huh Um, it's in Northeast.
Okay RD-SCHOOL-4-  What year- what year is that when you're seventeen, is that eleventh or twelfth?
Well I don't-  Ninth and tenth was smooth,  because that's when my moth- my mother was like very active in my life, like she did everything  for me  that like- I know.
But it's some stories lining up before we get to that.
So when I turned seventeen is when my mom got really really really really really sick.
Like she wasn't supposed to make it past December of  whatever that year was that I was seventeen.
Is that two-thousand seven?
Yeah two-thousand seven.
So I was living with her and her husband in District Heights,  they had a house.
But me and her husband did not get along because  I felt like he took advantage of her because she was very sick, and like would talk to her any type of way just do anything to her and things like that.
And my mother couldn't do anything on her own like she couldn't wipe her own butt, she couldn't  clothe herself, she couldn't- nothing, like she had like the mind of a two year old she would just go in the kitchen,  cut on the stove and  like- and just walk away, and stuff be on the stove, like so you had to  tend to her like a- all the time.
So me and him had got into a heated- oh and then I was getting child support from my dad.
My dad just disappeared after a while.
But he-  the child support was ending.
And so I was like, you know, I need my money to take care of me like my mom can't take care of me and my child support so me and him got into it one day and he was like, well you gotta go.
And like just put me out.
And so,  I'm still going to RD-SCHOOL-4, still going to school, so I end up moving with my aunt.
And then I don't know what happened with me and my aunt, but that didn't work out either.
So I moved from my aunt, I went to go- still going to school.
I never dropped out, still going to school.
And then I moved with my friend who lived around RD-ADDRESS-2,  but by this time I did get pregnant.
Um, who was I living with when I was pregnant?
Huh?
I don't know who I was living with when I got pregnant, it could have been RD-NAME-2.
I don't know, it was between, when I was pregnant, could have been with RD-NAME-2 but then it could have been my aunt RD-NAME-3.
But I think both, but when I finally had him,  I was w- living with my aunt RD-NAME-3.
But it was like, I would sleep on the couch, my baby sleep on the couch, and was like this not gonna work, so I went back with RD-NAME-2.
So I was still in school, so I finally had my son, graduated from high school,  and then  yeah.
Oh.
Uh-huh.
Right.
When I was going to UDC too, once I had had him then I lived with my aunt.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So I went straight to UDC but I stopped after the second semester.
Um,    um, my sister called me one day and was like,  oh these people have a apartment listing opening up you should go try it out, and it was like, okay.
So me and my friend RD-NAME-2 the girl that I was living with, we went to go put our name on the list.
They end up calling me a week la- it was a quarter income,  ended up calling me a week later and I got the apartment, um,  I still wasn't working at this time,  so it was just me and my son, I don't know what I was doing though.
I don't know, but I ended up getting a job at Giant.
So I was working at Giant, at this time my rent was only like twenty dollars.
Like twenty dollars, um,  this when I was  getting food stamps, , everything, like I was getting all the benefits, WIC,  everything you name, I was  getting every, all the benefits, but  I didn't- I know n-  no, then sum- you know about summer jobs, the summer youth employment program?
That came around  and I quit my- I quit my real job and I said okay I'm'a just see how this works because this is in a government building.
This is a government position, I'm'a see how this work, everybody was like, No you're dumb, you're stupid, why would you quit your real job?
So this was a summer job that's gonna be over by the end of the summer.
And I was like, you know,  if- if it's-  I put in a two weeks notice and my boss told me if you need to come back, you can come back, you're  what you supposed to do.
So I tried the job out and it did end,  but they ended up calling me back and they was like, okay you did so well want- we want you to come on by, and so I ended up getting a full time position  at RD-WORK-6 so that worked out.
Then my rent was no longer twenty dollars,  my rent-  my rent-  I'm sorry.
My rent was no longer twenty dollars,  they cut me off of food stamps um, Yeah  um,  n-  I- the only thing they allowed me to continue was Medicaid.
Yeah, and then two years later,  no.
Hold on,  so after my oldest son was born I got pregnant again.
I had abortion with  the second baby.
Then-  no no no no.
Yeah rewind.
Okay.
Before my son was born I got pregnant.
I didn't have that baby.
All this with the same man, I was with one- with this man for four-  four almost five years.
So I was with him, got pregnant.
Hold on, I met him in August,  I got pregnant by him in December, I- I aborted that baby in December.
I got- Huh?
This was RD-NAME-2.
I aborted that baby in December,  Then I got pregnant again in Jan- the very the next month with my oldest son.
I had him in October,  before my six weeks is up I was pregnant again  I got pregnant again.
I did not have that baby,  and then I preg- got pregnant with my second son,    and  I didn't wanna keep him but it- m- God was telling me like, if you have abortion,  I'm gonna kill you.
You know what I'm saying like,  like, Like I- I felt it like, I- that- that's another thing like, my mom has always like brought us up in church and though- and although we not li- her children aren't the most like  religious people in the world it's just like, those things will never leave you.
You know, so,  it's just like,  I did it once, God didn't do anything.
I did it a second time, I'm like, he was like, you playing with me now like,  you get this again something's gonna happen to you, so I was just like, okay God just did it.
Then I ended up getting a birth control after my second son  I was on that for five years.
I was off my birth control for a week and then I got pregnant again.
Very.
Um,  so I think I was out of college for about  four years, cause that's how long it took you to get- you was in school for four years?
I was out of college for four years, so as- as I was working at the job that I am now,  this lady came to me and was like, have you ever considered  like going to school, you know, going to get your bachelors, and I was like, no.
And she was like, why?
I was like, cause I believe- like, I'm a very hard worker, so I believe, like,  if I do good at my job,  I'm- I'm'a continue to get promoted and promoted and promoted and promoted, and she was like, honey,  it doesn't work like that.
Or whatever like, you have to  have the education as well as the experience.
So I was like, okay I guess I'll try it out.
I didn't know who was gonna watch my kids while I was in school, I didn't know how I was gonna make it work but  faith in God, was like just do it, step out on faith and you never know.
And, um,  So I enrolled in school, I didn't know who was gonna watch my kids but it was just like,  people were coming out of anywh- everywhere like, oh I'll watch 'em  fo- f- for this day, and I'll watch 'em for that day.
So it all worked out and I'm  graduating next year.
So.
Yes, thank you- Um,  business administration with human resource management, this is not what I wanna do with my life, though.
So, it was just one of those things, I just needed to get in school just- just needed to go get a bachelors.
Now I think I wanna be interior decorator but it's just like that's my plan B like,  although-  n- no one can take my education away from me so I was just like,  okay I'm'a just go get a degree in something, bam.
And, that's it.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Right.
No that was- yeah, that was one of the reasons why I didn't take school seriously at first because it's like  I didn't wanna go to school for four years and  it's not something that I really wanted to do, so it was just like, until I found out what I really wanted to do then now I'm not going to school, so.
Um,  it's-  I've been in school since two-thousand twelve, and I've never taken a break like,  going on every semester.
Um,  it- in the beginning str- it was stressful but it's like now a part of me like,  like I'm not going to school this summer and I feel like a loser like, why am I n-   I don't know what I'm gonna do with myself.
And then I was talking to my sister, my sister said, no maybe you- maybe you needed this break.
But only reason I'm not going to school this summer because they had no classes that I need.
So they're like, you know we have no classes for you this summer, that's the only thing you can do is sit out until fall semester.
So it's like, I won't be working this summer, I won't be in school, and it's just like, I haven't done that in so long like, what am I gonna be doing?
I'm just one of those constructive people like I have to be doing something.
I have to be doing something, like, so.
In July.
Fifteenth.
Oh yeah?
When your birthday at?
Yeah.
What s- what sign is that?
Le- oh.
Here we go.
She ain't- she ain't RD-NAME-1's yet?
Mm.
Oh.
So I was dating this guy,  for seven months  in two thousand fourteen.
And he was like very like verbally abusive like, he would be like, oh you're not pretty, you're this, that,  and all that so,  I just knew that relationship wasn't work but it was just like one of those convenient things, okay, he's here for my rent,  just gonna enjoy it  and then go from there.
We had all had a falling out.
Um, after RD-NAME-2 passed away.
Um, I don't know what the falling out was for but  we decided to go out to the bar  on H Street  at Kong's so it was me RD-NAME-3,  RD-NAME-2-  that was it, right?
And RD-NAME-3.
And so I kept feeling this boy like, look at him he's-    So we- RD-NAME-2 the one you gonna meet,  she's like-  she was like, kirking off, I don't even know what she was kirking off on,  the bartender was really nice, he was paying for the shots, it was just wonderful.
So I see the guy walk in,  like, oh he's cute.
So- but once he sit down I'm like, I see him out of my corner of my eye.
And so I don't know if he aks us what we drinking or did we aks him what he drinking,  but it was like,  and he was like, all I drink is Patron, and I was like, okay well,  we- you know, let us get a shot of Patron.
You know- yeah, so.
I don't- and then he was there with his sister and I think his sister was like, my brother like-  something happened.
Basically- No I got up honey.
I don't know how it happened but basically I got up, and I went down there with him and his sister and so we was just talking, I did tell him I had a boyfriend.
RD-NAME-3 made sure that he knew that I had a boyfriend,  she just kept saying, but you got a boyfriend like, why are you over talking to him?
Like-  But I knew that I was not happy and I knew that  me and my boyfriend  at the time was not gonna be a permanent thing, wasn't gonna be a long term thing so it was like, let me do me.
Like,  you know, and so me and him started talking-  No no no no, we didn't start talking right then and there.
We didn't start talking right then and there.
Yeah we was drinking we was talking and all this other stuff.
So we all left.
We left and went to this-  this little fake party looking thing across the street.
So guess who was in the party.
And so this song was like, you make me wanna leave the one I'm with, start a new-  Start a new relationship with you.
So they go, RD-NAME-3 that's a sign.
Everything-  everything's a sign for her.
So we're like, grooving and dancing,  and stuff like that.
RD-NAME-3 talking to one of his cousins, we're just dancing,  and then you know we just- we exchanged numbers and stuff like that.
But it was like I- it felt weird that day because its like, okay I'll be right back- I don't know where I went but once I came back he was down there talking to another girl.
I was looking at him like, what is this?
So but  he called me later on that day, he was like, no my sister- basically his sister had him out  because she felt like he needed to talk to girls.
Because he had broken up with some girl  a while ago, so he just was messing with just  I guess girls that he- she didn't think that he should be with.
So she was like, I'm'a take you out and I'm'a hook you up with some girls, so I was like, that's- I was number one,  the girl in the club was number two, and then I don't know who else-  whoever else he met that night.
So, um,  that was that.
Our relationship moved really really really really really really fast though.
Um, so,  I met him in November,  um, he started catching feelings, he was like, well look, you gotta-  I thought I could play the dude on the side,  DC does that a lot, you know side chicks, side dudes.
He was like,   I thought I could be the, uh, side dude but I can't, you know, I got feelings for you, like so whatchu gonna do?
I was like,  well I'm'a work it out with my boyfriend because I don't really know you, like, so I sent him this real  long text message and I was like you know, I'm sorry for leading you on,  I'm sorry for leading you on, and all this other stuff.
Um, because during this time we would go on like, multiple dates  within one week.
But it was just like, I'm cheating, like- Oh don't- I- I didn't-  cheating ain't my thing, but I felt like that was- that was just-  me and him was just not right for each other so I'm just like, oh- oh I'm just gonna cheat, I don't care like, you know, so.
So I was just like, you know, I can't do this no more, so he- he- basically he went off.
No no no, I w- I talked to my friends I was like, who do y'all think I should let go?
And so RD-NAME-3 was like,  one day she'll be on team RD-NAME-2 side, and one day she'll be on team RD-NAME-2 side.
RD-NAME-3 one day she be-  Like I was like, I couldn't even go to my friends and ask them for advice like, who should I talk to?
So I was just like, well I'm'a just try to make it work with him.
So he- and I was like, if me and RD-NAME-2 don't work out, I'm'a knock on RD-NAME-2's door,  Yeah I was like, I'm not gon-  And I'm'a just see what he say.
But he didn't take my farewell text message  as- like I thought he would because I'm thinking,  I just met you in November it's December like,  m- b- dudes don't catch feelings like that, like why you so mad?
So he didn't take it good, and I didn't- and then  we stopped talking for about a couple of days but I like- I missed him like terribly like,  I was like, oh my god, like, no more dates?
No more like, falling asleep on the phone,  And then the fact- and then I wanted to know people like,  how did I even have this much time to date you  and talk to you this much and I had a full-  a full boyfriend like how did I have this much time like, w- where are you?
But that wasn't a   So,  I- I was like, I'm just gonna make it work with RD-NAME-2.
My car got a boot on it.
Or whatever so,  um, I called my boyfriend at the time,  I was like, uh, my car has a boot on it,  and it wasn't like a thing I was aksing for money, to help me or anything, he was like- and but he know I has two sons,  and use- I use my car for everything.
He was like, dang, you know,  that's so sad to hear that, or something, he was like- basically that's what he said.
So RD-NAME-2 ended up texting me and was like, um,  how your morning going?
I was like, It's going horribly, he was like, why?
I was like, I w- walked outside and had a boot on my car.
He was like, alright, well meet me at the station,  or whatever, and I'm'a give you money to get the boot off your car.
I'm like, I just met this dude like, a couple of weeks ago, and it's like,  he's willing to help me and my own boyfriend's not willing to help me, like,  it's time for me to- So after that I was like, yeah RD-NAME-2 we- we're- we're just not gonna work anymore.
So-   so I ended up going to team RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2 is two different type of men though, okay?
RD-NAME-2 was the  on the right path type of guy like,    he had a nice little job and,  you know, he come from a nice little family.
He was like different from any other guy I ever talked to and like, and that- I think that was the reason I tried him out but he wasn't-   he wasn't- it- we was like oil and vinegar we just didn't mix, it was just like, We- we too from- d- it just didn't work.
And so  RD-NAME-2 was just like,  the hood boy.
You know, so-  So-    So-   But it was like, RD-NAME-2 was like that protector as well like, he's like,  if I was around him, you're not about to talk no trash about me, you're not about to- you're gonna respect me, and it was like one of those thing, and RD-NAME-2 didn't make me feel protected.
Like-  so it was just like, both of them was giving me different feelings cause like,  I- I felt wanted and I made him happy and he showed it he was,  he told me how he felt and RD-NAME-2 didn't like,  it- it was just two different things.
But my sister was like, you know,  s- even before she met RD-NAME-2 she was like, come on,  he a street dude,  I was like-  She was like, yeah he is street dude,  she was like, that's why you like- I was like, no that's not why I like him.
But then after a while, like my family wanted me to stay with RD-NAME-2 because  the type of guy he was but they didn't know like, how he was.
E- every guy shows to be a nice person  while they around your family but behind closed doors that's  not how they treat you.
So everybody was like,  team RD-NAME-2, team RD-NAME-2 but  eventually everybody is now team RD-NAME-2.
And so,  then- Are you team RD-NAME-2?
And so me and him have been dating for-  two thousand fourteen of November and then he propo- no- Oh lord.
Two-thousand fourteen November we moved in with each other that April.
Um,  and then he proposed to me  this January.
And I-  I got pregnant by him last October.
So everything just kind of like- S- no, it shouldn't take no time.
So when I asked him when we're getting married it's one of those things like,  right now  we need to focus on the baby then after the baby, focus on  it's the wedding and then it's just like,  I- I just feel like, you shouldn't have proposed to me if you wasn't ready to do this, like at least give me a date.
That's the question everyone asks, so when's the date?
And it just makes me look dumb,  that's- and I just feel like- it just meant like, give me something like, a round about or something.
It doesn't have to be the exact day but maybe you could saying it's  December, next July, or something like just give me a round about and it's not that so,  that's why the ring is no longer on my finger.
Because it's like,  at the end of the day you're not about to-  When a man sees that, or anyone sees that, that means you're- you're- you're- you're off- you're off limits, you know what I'm saying?
And I feel like that was his way like, keeping me on a leash, like,  and you can't go nowhere you're pregnant, got my baby, and all this.
And it's just like, you're not ready to make that real commitment yet.
So it was just like,  until you're ready to make that real commitment then,  yeah.
Mm-mm.
It is.
Okay.
How each- Okay, um, RD-NAME-3 and I started going to RD-SCHOOL-2 together in the seventh grade.
And we kind of like kicked it from there but our, um, relationship always had like-  she's always been my best friend  but our relationship always had those  breaks and gaps in between like I don't- the falling out never be that serious but  the length that- that we go not talking to each other you would think it would be like that serious but- It's never like- it's never that deep like-  like we're- we're never fought each other, we never like- So it's just like  we just be  not tal- and it don't- it don't even be beefing.
Cause it's like I- I wouldn't talk bad about her and never- n- never heard her like, say she was talking bad about me, it's just like we're not talking anymore, so.
And then,  RD-NAME-3 and I, my kids'-  my son's father  and her  kids' father were friends.
And so  they'll come around with their girlfriend, he'll come around with his girlfriend and we just  intertwine.
And yeah.
And RD-NAME-2,  I met her through RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-2 and I met her through RD-NAME-3, through the mentoring.
No I been-  I been met  RD-NAME-2 like, long time ago.
But we- me and her never like  got close a long time ago until recently then we started  getting close.
Um,  me and RD-NAME-3- okay, my mom had a mentoring prog-  mentoring program before she got real sick,  but she would do it at her house and it was named, Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman.
Um, so it ended  because she couldn't no longer do it, and so RD-NAME-3 was like,  why don't we- why don't we start it back up?
And I was like, sure, y- you know, she was president, I was the vice president.
But I think her and my mom had a falling out,  cause it was like, RD-NAME-3 wanted to do something, my mom was like, no,  we can't do that because-  I don't know why they couldn't do it but she was just like, no, so RD-NAME-3 was like, I'm just gonna start my own.
So it was like, okay.
I guess I'll just go along with you then, like,  help you do you.
And b- it wasn't like no shade to my mom or nothing.
But it's just like, I still wanted to be a mentor you know, we- we can do  a later time in life, like now.
RD-NAME-3 wanted to do her own  mentoring route, I'm still gonna support.
So we ended up doing um,  mentoring.
I had two young ladies, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 was seventeen at the time, and RD-NAME-2 was like, thirteen.
Like thirteen at the time.
Um, I didn't spend that much time with RD-NAME-2 but I spent more time with RD-NAME-2.
I don't know why cause I thought I would  connect more with the seventeen year old but I connected more with the thirteen year old.
But then I eventually fell off, like I don't even to talk to her anymore.
No.
But I- I plan to start back talking to RD-NAME-2 though, I need- I need to do better with that.
It just- I don't know, when life-  I'm one of those people when life does hit, like I'm not gonna be sad or none of that but I'm more of a like- I just  distance myself from everybody.
So.
I just have to stop doing that.
You won't see me sad or crying all that, I'm just like, hey.
You see me now then you won't see me again 'til like six months later.
So.
Yeah, I just- yeah.
It was amazing because, um, I've never had those experience as a child like, my mom say I went  to Disney World but it-  I don't remember, I don't have pictures of that.
So I can't say like- Yeah I don't- I can't say like I have, so to be able to take my kids there was amazing.
Also to take him there.
Although he-  he financed some and I financed some but it's like he had never been anywhere like ever  in his life so it was like,  oh let's go to Disney.
And all three of their birthdays are in October.
So it was just like, okay this y'all birthday gift, we're going to go to Disney World, stuff like that.
So it was just amazing like to see him, his mom called me and was like,  I'm so glad you was able to take him, my kids was like, this is amazing, their first time on a plane.
I was like, I wanna give my kids the life, like, I feel-   I feel great.
And so, um,  yeah that was-  th-  I don't know, Disney World was amazing.
It was just like,  my kids' expectations now is just like,  through the roof.
Like, I'm like, oh my god, I don't make that much money, like, we can't do all that,  so.
Yeah.
Now- now though,  although I took a lot of trips with my friends which I- I'm- I'm now ready to take my mom on trips.
Cause she ain't really been no where.
So.
She's better but she's not like  the mother I remember.
She's- she's able to do things on her own but it's like she's not the same.
Yeah and so it's like I really only had a mother up until seventeen.
That's what I feel like.
So.
The relationship never went anywhere but it's like I can't go to my mother, like I talk to my m- mother but you can't- I can't go to-  It's-  it's hard to explain like I can't go to my mother and be like,  ma help me, I- it-  I can't- you remember how my mom used to be and it's just- it's just- I'm like the mother, like yeah it's just like she comes to me more than I can come to her and it's just like, even if I come to her it's just not- and although she would love love love love love to help me it's just like she's not in a place where-  And it's not even just financially it's just anything like,  she's not in a place to  do that.
Uh, we're getting closer  now, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Not hang out, it was- it's more traveling with them.
Like I'm not- I mean hanging out is fun but I'm more of like I wanna see new things, I wanna do new things and stuff like that, and RD-NAME-3 is actually one of the people- well is the person who introduced me to traveling, so.
I'm more of like I just wanna get up and go,  like- See I w-   RD-NAME-3 probably don't understand this but I'm one of them people like,  I'm a daredevil.
Like so, if I'm doing something and it's half- it's like near  death experience and then we make it through it,  oh my god like that was the best time of my life like, it's-  like- Right?
My-  Huh.
So the be- and it didn't happen to me but I was able to witness was- having to call to Maryland because RD-NAME-3 almost died.
So-  Yes like it was- okay so we're on a banana boat, and this guy like,  he's like a big guy he- you know how the banana boat-  So you know how the banana boat is she was in the- she was in the back of the m- he was in the back of the banana boat so as we went over waves,  like he like went like all the way up and like all the way down so it made the banana boat tip-  tip over.
And so all of us landed in the water, it was like in the middle of the ocean,  sea whatever it is.
And we were in the middle of it so I didn't know what was in the water, I just knew we had to get back on this boat,  and I knew the only way to get back on it is you had to be calm.
You know what I'm saying, flip the boat over-   flip the boat over and just bounce back on it.
So everyone was able to do that except this one.
She was like, I'm drowning.
My life jacket-  And so it was just like,  I was trying so hard to save her  but it was like, I- I can't save you until you wanna save yourself, like,   just- And I- I tried to get off, I tried  It just- it just wasn't working for her and this is- after a while I was just like, this is it for you.
Like,     No but it was really bad like we had our- the person who drives the banana boat but then he had to call someone else over there like with their little jet ski thing like they both trying to get her, I mean it just- it was just not working like it was just-  And she's like- And once again like I'm saying we're out of the country we don't know what's in this water so I didn't know if a shark was gonna come and eat her up or none of that so it was just like, you need to get back on the boat.
But like once she was saved and stuff like that,  it was-  it was fun but it was like that was- I- I loved it though.
I loved that.
And then like this-   Yes it was.
And- Um, that was a good trip, um,  Disney World was good but it's just like that was more for my kids so I didn't do anything for myself, so.
All the trips so I think, uh,  was amazing,  and Miami.
Miami was amazing.
Um,  Bali and, um, Jerusalem.
I know this is crazy but yeah.
I just wanna see like where, uh, Jesus was like buried at and  the tomb he was in, like I wanna see all that stuff.
Really?
Y'all.
Mm-hm.
Did she say it was nice?
Yeah I want- I wanna- I wanna see all that.
Uh-huh.
Wow.
I heard it's expensive though.
Yeah.
I- Uh-huh.
Yeah I really- I really wanna go there.
Like-  I really wanna go there.
Um, just because I had seen somebody else go there.
And I was like,  the pictures from there- Yeah.
And it's like um-  Right now though I'm- I'm- I wanna go on trips like inside the United States cause I do wanna be able to take my mom  p- like I don't know if she can go out of the country.
Know what I'm saying, like I don't know if she can do that.
Right now it's just like, okay let's- let's experience this, let's go here, let's do that, because she's-  she's so like cooped up in the house all the time it's like that's- you're not living that's just existing like, you need to get out and do some things, so.
And then because of her- I was having this conversation with  them two and RD-NAME-2,  that's the reason why I can't have boundaries with men like the moment a man try to like give me boundaries and restrictions,  it doesn't work for me because I seen my mom succeed more without a man,  then when she was with a man it-  it- everything started being taken away from her.
So I'm just one of those people like,  y- you're in my life but  you're not my life like, I'm  in control of my life, you know what I'm saying.
So,  yeah.
So- but it- that might be a reason why all my relationships is like- because I'm not the, um, submissive female because it's like I've seen how men can take a woman that's on her A game and then  just  tear it all down.
Like so, it's just like mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Jump out a plane.
Um, I- I'm just strange like when I s-   I'm just strange like I wanna run like from a herd of animals, like-  like- No like I wanna-  like- No, really like I was talking to RD-NAME-2's mom and his sister  and I was like, you know what would be like the perfect labor,  like if I'm driving  and then it's like, oh my god it's time, and I gotta pull over on the side of the road.
And people are stopping their cars and like coming to help me push out the baby like-   like- I was just telling- she was like you - Because I've experienced like going to the hospital but just like- I want like- I want- that's not- that's not great.
Like I want a like amazing story to tell like- No.
No it's just no.
No, mm-mm.
I don't know it- I'm just one of those people who's just like you really really only get one life to live.
And like I don't wanna do everything traditionally, I don't wanna do  everything the way that it's supposed to do, I wanna like  take some different routes and just  see where it takes me,  like so.
Mm-hm.
Um, I'm about to die?
Uh, both, you could say both.
Um- Uh, ?
was there a time when I was like, I'm about to die.
No but I think the scariest time was-      E- even when I know I c- there's a possibility I'm about to die I'm never like, oh I'm about to die, but I think the scariest time probably-  I'm probably probably telling too much but  when I used to-  to go with RD-NAME-2 to wherever he used to go.
And it's just like, you just see some things and was like, I could really die right here, somebody could really just come in here and shoot this place up and I'm just right here chilling so I think-   I think that's the w- like the scariest moments for me.
But it was-  I didn't-  Yeah, I just said that but I like it It was like I enjoy like the- the- the r- the risk of it like- Yeah, like-  But it's like, I'm one of those people like, if somebody was, I know exactly what I'd do.
Not saying that I'm gonna make it out of here but I know exactly what I'm gonna do.
I'm not gonna be the one like,  stuck in shock like I know exactly what I would do like to try to get out that situation.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The only thing I- I'm- the only thing I'm afraid of is dying itself.
I don't know.
Because I think it's the unknown that's the only thing that you can't go and aks somebody like, how was your experience?
so I think- Like no.
So,  that's the only thing.
It's-  it's just so like-  No one- I mean,  like I said I was in church, you know heaven and hell and stuff but no one-  I don't have no one that can verify for me and tell me like this is-  this what happens.
Like, so th-  it's just the unknown of it like, that's it.
And then- and if-  it's-  it's not just that it's like dying young.
Like if I'm- if I'm older and like did everything that I wanted to do in life, nothing is-  all the-  nothing I feel is incomplete then I'm- I'm okay, you know, that's my time, but like,  RD-NAME-2's case, I just feel like that was just so unfair like she had so many things she wanted to do.
And it's like, she wasn't a bad person, why was that taken away from her?
And stuff like that and it's like, you have all these cruel people, not- and I don't wish death on anyone but it's just like-  She was- she was like the opposite of me.
Like she was the- the one that was like, so cautious about life, it's like we-  let's go do this, she's like, no, that doesn't even make sense like, why would we do this?
Like, you guys this could happen, this could happen, it's like, shut up RD-NAME-2 like let's just do it, like-   so it was just like, yeah.
No that's fine.
It's a h-  But there are things I would not try.
I would not get my palms read,  I would not like  talk to a-  a-  a ca- a tarot card re- so anything like that I will not do.
Only because my mom say you kn-  those spirits linger on to you and stuff like that I wouldn't do that  type of stuff.
Yeah.
I know it's weird like I would not- I would not.
I wouldn't.
Like,  I don't mess with spirits and stuff like that like, no.
I need to see what's coming at me.
Like spirits they just on you and you just- no, I c- I can't do that.
Yeah.
So that's the o- that's- that's the only thing like I don't need no one to tell me my future or when I wanna die, stuff like that.
I don't-  mm-mm.
So that's the only thing I won't try.
But other than that yeah, I'm down for whatever.
Um, nope.
Cause I'm on- I'm- oh, that's another thing.
You might could say I'm a scaredy cat but I like to do it with someone.
Oh, see?
I have to have at least one person to do it with me.
No one would do skydiving with me.
You wanna do skydiving?
No for real?
You just said you were scared, you get scared of stuff.
You w- you wanna go skydiving.
Oh  I see, okay.
Oh my god.
Oh my god.
Did you do it with someone?
See.
You wanna go scuba diving?
She don't need to get out the boat.
Um, it's changed.
No, I'm not gonna say it's changed cause it mighta been the same but because I'm older I'm allowed to see more things.
And like once I got thinking I was just protected from everything, but-  Um,  I think  I don't like DC no more though because it's like now we're always attached to such negative things, like,  it's like rare you hear DC as something positive beside  the President, it's just like we're always attached to something negative.
And it makes people look at us like we're just a group of  people that's here to  destroy.
And that's the only thing I don't like.
So.
So it's like,  now people like, I gotta get out of DC because DC is so horrible, let's move to Virginia, Maryland, stuff like that because it's like DC now has this  negative  thing now s- that's the only thing.
Yeah, yeah.
It's- uh- mm, I like how it's changing now though, I like how it's changing because it's like a- it's a mixture of people now.
It's like it's so diverse now.
And I like that.
Um- I don't have a favorite place in DC though.
But it- I can name some places I like to go.
I like- I like um, U Street.
Um, no then I would say U Street probably is my favorite there now.
Yeah.
No.
I like going with RD-NAME-3 where they- when I used to go with like to happy hour and stuff like that but, no.
That's it, yeah.
I'm strange because I try my hardest to stay out of DC.
Yeah.
I don't know so I'm more of a like, okay here's this restaurant in Virginia oh here's this restaurant in-  No, I'm-  DC is just like, mm  nah.
Cause it's like you- you just gotta be careful in DC it's like you always run into either-  that's why I don't like go gos.
I used to like go go, I no longer h- like go go cause it's not- it's- it's- it's attached to so much negative things.
Like people done got killed at go gos,  you know, it's just like no I'm-  go go's just not my thing, I'm not going to no go gos, I'm not- I'm not, so it was just like  th-  j- just because what DC is attached to I'm just like, okay let's try this,  this is a nice restaurant over here.
We don't have to worry about no girls starting some stuff, or talking trash or being ratchet, and things like that so it's just like I try to  move out a little bit.
My favorite restaurant in DC- um, oh.
I- I still wanna answer the question.
Um- uh, sh-  what were some places we been in DC?
I like Sticky Rice, that ain't- that ain't my favorite restaurant but I- I like Sticky Rice.
I like, um,  H & Pizza on H Street, um, I- I mean, I like uh- N- I- I- I went with RD-NAME-2 I just-  The price of the Ha- the prices of the Hamilton for their food, no.
That's- that's ridiculous.
That's what DC is too now son, you just-  you pay all this money and it's just like, wh- what is this?
So no, no.
But- There was a- oh, that was in DC but that was like a small- I like places like that in DC.
The small little- small little hole in the wall places I like.
Yeah.
Yeah I like- yup.
No I like - I like little places like that in DC.
Boundary no.
What- what kind of food do they sell?
Mm.
Where is it?
In Northwest?
How long you been in DC?
But I find the people that like-  but you've been here for a while.
I find people that move here They- no, not only love it but they experience more than the people who actually- actually live here, so.
Yeah but only on field trips.
Yeah, so.
They actually fly just to see those- yeah.
But only on field trips and so I- I've never- no, except the Martin Luther King, I did- I did take my time out to go see that but everything else, no.
Only when my school took me.
Um, no.
But now that you say that, yeah.
I need to go I guess.
Mm.
So my sons like  they aks me all the time, like, mom why you don't take us to like  to Monument?
Or why you don't take us- So- so I think I- I do need to get more in-  into that.
Like I've never been to the White House and I feel like I need to take my kids like to- the White House.
Like they'll be like, where's the White House?
I'm- I know where it is, I'm like, oh it's over there and it's just like-  Yeah they wanna actually like, Mommy I really wanna like see it like up- but no.
So I'm- I'm- I'm'a get better with that.
We been to like the Air and Space Museum,  and like,  um, stuff like- but not like the main monuments.
We went to the, um, World War Two memorial.
Um,  and I think I only went to the World War Two memorial with them is because it was a project  at school.
Yeah I could go, so.
And that was it.
Oh, I never done that either.
Mm-hm.
Wow.
So you did the- the big red bus that rides around?
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Waterfront?
Oh speaking of that, that is my f- favorite restaurant in DC.
I only been like three times though, Nick's Riverside Grill.
It's down like the- in the Waterfront like-  I don't even know why they call it the Waterfront, but it's like the Georgetown Waterfront, it's like in the back of Georgetown.
Yeah.
So-  In Northwest.
Where- where they sometimes do like the pirate ships on Halloween for the little kids.
Um,  I can't think of the name of it, but they also do it for adult- I took my kids on there cause it was like groupon deal.
And so we hop on it, the little pirate ship and then you get off and it's like all these restaurants around there.
But Nick's Riverside Grill is like really nice because in the winter time they have the like the ice skating rink  and stuff like that.
Yeah, and then like during this time the ice skating rink is around, so it's just like this big water- this big water pond and stuff but it's like the scenery is very pretty but the food is also really good.
And I thought the food would be expensive because where it's at but no it was like  the prices are amazing like- Grill yeah, Nick's Riverside Grill.
In-  in Georgetown Water- like all the way in the back of Georgetown.
Yeah.
Yeah it's in the back of- yeah in the back.
But it's um- I- I've taken him, and then I went with my cousin.
But it's- it's- it's amazing like you- and it's not just Nick's Riverside Grill either, it's like  when you go it's like a whole circle  full of like, restaura- I- but I've only tried Nick's Riverside Grill.
Uh-uh, but that-  it's that restaurant yeah, it's that restaurant.
But there- but it's like a circle of restaurants but I like Nick's Riverside Grill.
Yeah, mm-hm.
Yeah, you'll-  No you'll like it because n- i- The reason I like Nick's Riverside Grill because you have the option to eat outside and inside, always ask for outside cause I like how it look.
But you- you'll really like it.
No like, I don't know what type of food you like but I like their crab cakes.
But they have everything, they have like wings, they have french fries, everything but that's why I go because of- they have crab cakes that are amazing it's not like ridiculous prices.
So that's why I like it.
I do eat mumbo sauce.
But I totally agree with you when you say it depends where you go.
And I like Danny's.
Mm-hm.
There's multiple Danny's but I always go to- you know where Iverson Mall is?
And I think it's t-  um, considered Temple Hills?
That Danny's is  the one, like  that's the one.
And they're now stingy with their mu- you can- now people are like really stingy with their mumbo sauce.
You only get like, this much and if you want-  they put them in this little tube and then they put that on your food, and if you want extra mumbo sauce they charge you per tube and put it like- it's- it's ridiculous now with the mumbo sauce.
But yeah.
And RD-NAME-3 got me on to Danny's too, like- Eddie's.
Oh Eddie Leonard's?
But it's a lot of 'em.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Marlboro Pike, okay cause it's one right here on Alabama Avenue too.
Mm-hm.
Right.
You travel from Silver Spring to DC every day?
Wow.
When we go to RD-NAME-3's house- oh well when we go to RD-NAME-3's it felt like we ran forever.
Oh okay  Oh okay.
Yeah.
Um, I drive to work but catch the train back  home.
Um, because I get a ride in the morning and then in the evenings he pick up the boys, but I wouldn't even aks him to pick me up in the evening because of the traffic, exactly.
I leave out at six o'clock in the morning so it's like the like traffic is  just-  cause no one's really out there so- but in the evenings absolutely not, I would never.
Um, I like the subway, not the bus.
The green line.
The green line and the blue line.
Both are dangerous.
Red line, yeah but far as like violence, the green line.
Yeah.
Um, I would say, if you- if you're traveling to Greenbelt way, you're more safer but if you traveling to the Branch Avenue way, yeah you might- that's the mo- that's the- yeah.
You-  you going through some things.
No you- After Gallery Place- After Gallery Place going towards Branch Avenue.
But then it stops so it's like from  Gallery Place to-  I would say Gallery Place to Congress Heights.
No no no to Suitland.
Suitland's bad too so Gallery Place to Suitland.
But Naylor Road and Branch Avenue are- are kind of good stations but  I guess from Gallery Place to  Suitland, yes.
That's- the- those the ones I feel like it need to be a police officer on every car.
Like,  seriously.
Like- Yeah because you- you know Anacostia?
It's going through Anacostia and Congress Heights and yeah those aren't like nice-  those are pretty rough  yeah, so-  So I- my stop is Congress Heights.
So he'll pick me up from the station and then yeah, so Um,  I'm just one of those people like I don't mess with nobody so I- I- it- it's w- it's what you make it like I don't m- b- I- it- I'm cool with it.
I been in this area all my life.
Like at the map, before moving here I was in my old apartment for about six years.
That was like right down the street, like  that was a really bad area but it was like I didn't mess with nobody, nobody messed with me, so.
That was that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like it.
I like it because I- like I said, it was always so much negative things now people seeing like if it- d- it's n-  The news only  tell you what they wanna tell you, you know what I'm saying, so.
Until you actually experience it for yourself you will never know like, the real DC, so.