Never be afraid to follow a dream.
Never let fear  overcome  and circum  your  being, you know what I'm saying, anything that you wanna do.
Uh, growing up is uh,  experience that  is basically a gift.
Keep your childhood as long as you possibly can cause the real world don't care about you.
Um,  everybody's out to take.
Nobody really wants to give.
But,  you fight adversity  as much as possible.
To do the best that you can.
And to make it.
And  try  your best to be great.
They used to have a little saying when we was young,  good, better, best, never let it rest, until your good get better and your better get best.
Don't settle for  what  is given  you know,  take what you want.
And I mean that in  the most respectful way,  you know but,  don't let nobody give you  you know,  a bag of oranges when you want  apples, you know.
Fight for what you believe in,  and know that you can  do better  than  what  they expect you to.
You know,  have respect for yourself, have respect for others  and you'll get a long way.
Yeah, you'll go a long way  out here.
You know what I mean  it's hard to survive  out  here with nobody, number one.
And um,  it's so hard to live  but so easy to die.
And a lot of people out here have  points to prove for what reason I  really don't know, whatever's going on with them.
But,  you know, keep your h- keep your head straight.
And just  try to make something of yourself, you know what I'm saying.
Grow up to be an entrepreneur.
You know.
Don't let nobody put you in the situation where you have to wait for  your blessings  you know what I'm saying from  that- that place, you know what I'm saying.
Cause they'll keep you under and try to work you until you die.
You know what I'm saying, work you to the bone.
Make more situations for yourself.
That way  you know,  people can't hold you back from what you want.
That's one of the things that I teach my kids  a lot, you know what I'm saying, that I want all kids to understand, but respect  you know what I'm saying, others and respect yourself.
And that's- that's- that's something that'll take you far.
Um,  right now I work as a building engineer.
I've been there for seven years.
Uh,  basically,  anything that's in the building as far as HVAC,  carpentry, uh, electrical,  plumbing,  all those type of things you know, I love working with tools.
Um,  love tools, I buy tools for no reason, I'm'a add tools that I don't even know what it was  and I just buy it just because I have to have it, thats- that's- that's my thing.
Uh,  also work  um,  residential um,  renovations.
You know and  handy man work.
Anything that has to do with a house.
I'm in it.
I'm changing, I'm  fixing.
You know that's- that's my-  my profession.
And I love it, I actually have a passion for it.
You know that's why I've been in it for so long, been working it since I was, uh, fifteen actually.
Started as um, wanted to be a architect.
Went to high school in a vo-tech program  for uh-  for architecture.
Had a baby, and then everything went south cause I had to have money,  so.
Got into the construction world,  got into the remodeling  you know, residential remodeling world.
Anything that has to do with homes.
Love it.