It's like with a accent sometimes.
I think like,  in DC we create our own  accent.
We be like, dang, or-  or-  or with-  or- um,  I wanna say  we create our own words.
Like, stink.
That means like, boo.
Right, like boo like,  like boo, Like bae, bae.
Okay.
I think  we- we-  I think we use the term real good, like bae,  we came up with bae.
I wanna say  I have heard the term op,  that means police.
It's- it's so many other terms like, um-  I'm not with it, I don't like the slang talk, I tell people that.
Um,  what else?
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Like,  you look a mess.
That's what that means.
Mm-mm.
No.
Cise?
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
Like you got all the information, like you good on it, like you know what you're talking about.
Oh, jazzing 'em, you ever heard that?
Like you cising that person out or like you- you making it better than it is, like you jazzing 'em, like you- you bringing their le- like, head level up, you- you exciting that person.
Drawing 'em, you drawing attention.
It's all coming to me now that you saying stuff like that.
Yeah.
Yes.
Lunching.
Like, something wrong with you, like you not- you not fully functioning right now.
You a little off.
A lot of people.
No, a lot of younger people.
A lot of young people say that,  lunching, y- like, you lunching.
But I don't think  we-  Yeah,  a lot of young people say it, I don't think a lot of older people say it.
Kill Mo, right?
Kill mean like, right, like you right.
Yeah, right, you use it exactly right.
Mm-hm.
Bod.
No, bod.
Another one is b-  bod like, please bob.
Like please tell the truth like, swear.
It's another word for swear, like- Bob like,  B-O-B.
Bob like, please bob.
Please bob.
Like tell the truth.
Vinesse  you ever heard that?
Like somebody just took something from you, like they just vinesse you for your drink.
You know?
Stuff like that  like- Like vinesse like, no.
Like vinesse.
Like somebody just vinesse you.
Right.
Mm,  right.
DC thing.
Yeah.
Like that's my-   Like,  it could be anything.
Like that's my-  that's like, my joint.
But normally,  the term joint is used for like when you have a  like-  like that's my girl, like don't mess with her.
That's my shorty, joint, bae,  stink.
Forever.
That's my ace,  I've heard that before.
Right.
Mm-mm.
No.
Cause I feel like  as black people we're already targeted  because of who we are.
So we don't need to come up with slang to make us look  less educated.
You know what I'm saying?
I mean, it has its times for it,  but when you in a classroom  and you have  a w- Caucasian teacher that's teaching you,  and you say,  oh you drawing 'em, like she doing too much,  it's a problem.
When you have people that's-  donors that's donating from the school and you  in here saying, oh she wilin-  she wilin out.
Like,  come on now.
We already targeted cause we African American.
We don't need to draw more attention to ourselves.
I mean, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying-  I'm not trying to sound like,  oh no, that's bad, we don't need to have that language.
But it's a time and a place where  language should be used.
In a professional  work setting,  for me that's school.
That's anybody professional work setting.
If you  in school  that's-  Stuff like that, you shouldn't be able to- you shouldn't be using that  during that time.
Now, whatever you wanna do later, that's you.
I just don't use that language.
That's not me.
Right.
Courage.
Have the courage to be yourself.
Cause nowadays we-  we wanna fit in.
We wanna fit in with the people, we wanna fit in with the rappers, we wanna fit in with the-  we wanna fit in with the- with the boy next to us because he got on  all the-  he got on the new Jordans.
And we wanna fit in with  him cause he smart, he gonna-  he got-  he got- he got things that he can do.
Be yourself.
Have the courage to be yourself.
Have the courage to do what's right.
And have the courage to go to school  and make something of yourself.
Or you don't even have to go to school but just have the courage  to say that I can-  I can do this.
Have the mindset.
Cause  it's within yourself, you have to trust yourself.
If you don't trust yourself or have the courage to  say that I can do this,  you not gonna be able to do nothing, you gonna be  stuck.
And have a peace of mind and be around positive people.
Cause I think that's what mostly um  I've lost- I lost a friend a year ago.
And I feel like he was a smart boy, he had a  good future.
But I felt like he was around the wrong people and he ended-  that ended  his life.
They wasn't responsible for his life  being ended.
But if he wasn't around them I think-  I think he woulda still been here today.
He come from a Christian background.
I have cousins now that's coming from a Christian background.
Coming from  grandparents  going to church every Sunday, from parents going to church every Sunday.
And they-  they out here-  they doing-  they doing what they wanna do cause they wanna fit in, they wanna be accepted  by they boys, they homies.
Like with me, everybody know.
Like it was a party a few weeks ago.
And it was like, RD-NAME-2 oh we already know you not gonna be going, your parents ain't going for that.
Was like,  true.
but you forgot one thing, I'm not going for that, cause I got a future.
If I go to that party, that might- that party may be the very party that mess up my life for the rest.
It won't be no going to Hampton no becoming no lawyer.
It won't be none of that, it'll be behind somebody's prison bars.
Cause anything could happen.
You can't trust nobody.
But just have the courage to do  right in life.
That's all.
You're welcome.
Thank you.