Right.
Right.
I was.
Yes.
And,  you know, sometimes as you're going through things  you don't appreciate  the historical significance of it until- until much later.
Um,   what I remember,  uh,  about the- the riots when Doctor King was killed was  that, uh, I was at school.
And they  c-  I got called to the principal's office.
And I thought   what have I done?
Um, I said I haven't done anything.
Why are they calling me to the principal's office?
And, so, they- they- they called me into the principal's office, and they-  they- they said, um,   RD-NAME-1, we've-  th- they're having riots downtown and- and, um, they've called out the National Guard, and  it's-  they're burning buildings and  all kinds of things are going on.
And, of course, we didn't have  ready access  to the media and the TVs and all that kind of information like we do now,  so I didn't know.
And, um, they-  they  told me that they had arranged for  all of the  black students to go home with either  faculty members or other students,  so that you wouldn't have to go down  and be in-  in the city and be  near the-  the riots and  that sort of thing.
I said, well,  that's not-  Thank you, but that's not necessary.
There were only  I think two students who lived  anywhere near where the- the-  the rioting was taking place.
Most of us lived  towards the outer edge of the city,  and most of us lived fairly close together.
So  I  just told 'em, I said I- I can take everybody home.
I- That's fine.
I was driving at the time.
So  I piled everybody in my car,  and, um,  one young lady- one student- female student who lived  sort of close to the area,  she went home with an- another one of the black female students.
And, um,  I was able to drop everybody else off, and  we all went home, got home safely.
Um, it was a time when there was a-  Thereafter was a curfew in the city so  you couldn't be out after a certain hour and  that sort of thing and that was a little  hair-raising.
Um,      I- I- I didn't truly appreciate  all of the rest of what was going on  at- immediately.
Certainly  when everything died down,  and the curfews were lifted and people were trying to return  to something of a normal life,  coming back in town and being close to the areas  that had been hardest hit  by the riots  was very very sobering.
So,  um,  my family attended church  at Sixth and M Street, right up-  right up the street.
And,  uh, right around the corner was Seventh Street  and parts of Seventh Street that were  devastated by the-  by the riots and what went on.
And so,  um, some of the places-  many of the places that we were familiar with,  and particularly the kids were familiar with because  when church was- Sunday School was over with, we'd go around the corner and-  and go to the store or something like that,  those places were gone.
Um,  U Street was  decimated.
And, um,  it was a- a place where  on the weekends  I'd take a date and go to the movies.
Um,  and you'd have your sort of pick of-  There were several movies all along U Street,  and you had your pick of where you could go.
And all that was gone.
Um,  the places to eat,  um,  places that were,  you know, familiar.
All- all of that-  all of that changed, um,  and so there was just  i-  a- a lot of-  a lot of devastation.
Um,  and a lot of-  a lot of- a lot of change.
But then  there was a lot of opportunity  to-  to do some things.
And so,  um,    out of the rubble,  you started to see things- other- so- some good things start to happen Um,  more local control.
More- more f-  more focus on,  um,  the need for jobs, job training,  uh, the creation of other opportunities for- for- for people  whose, um-  for whom the- the-  the-  the riots in many respects were  um,  a venting of  years and years of frustration.
Um,  and that's not an excuse,  but  it- it kind of puts it in context.
Um,  and so,  um,  the- the- the-  you started to see  certainly the Federal Government  start to invest  money in- in- in programs and services in the city,  and some- some things start to-  start to happen politically.
Now I missed out on a lot of that  because by that time when things started to really change,  I've gone and I'm now away at college and in- I'm in New Jersey.
And it's, um,  a completely different world and  my time here in DC,  starts to become  much more limited.
I come home  for the-  o- occasionally on the weekend.
Um,  o- occasionally for the-  the- I-  Thanksgiving and- and Christmas but only  for a brief period because  that's basketball season.
We're  playing or in training,  and so  I'm not able to spend a lot of time.
I'm going-  I'm going back, and so  I don't really get into,  um,  all that's going on here.