Si- Sixteen.
Four years.
Yes.
Maryland.
No.
DC and Maryland got their own slang, but if you from out of town  then we'll know that you from  wherever you-  how you speak.
Bob,  kill, uh- Kill means like you agreeing with something.
Mo is like if they don't know your name they'll call you by Mo or Bob.
Uh-  uh, what other stuff?
Yeah.
Like swag we don't use swag anymore.
Yeah we use uh-  we use fresh.
Yeah, DC- DC people act  crazy.
They act like- Yeah.
In Maryland- Maryland people we're cool with each other.
And we just chill.
Uh, I- In Maryland we used to walk to the rec.
And everybody- we was friends with everybody, no hood gang claiming or anything.
You played basketball, and in DC,  we don't go nowhere, we just sit in the house because  it's a lot of shootings.
It's a lot of gang claiming, if you  claim a gang, then they'll beat you up or something like that.
DC,  we really don't like DC, I don't like DC.
I just stay to myself.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
It's uh- it's okay.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes, school friends.
It's not difficult you just gotta pick the ones you wanna be around with.
Yeah.
It happened this year.
Mumbo sauce is a sauce you could put on anything like, you get it from the- Yeah you get it from the carry out and you just put it on chicken and fries and make it taste good.
They might have ketchup you have to go to a certain place to get the best  mumbo sauce.
Uh,  like ke- it j- could be ketchup and, uh,  I don't know what's inside but it tastes good.
Or duck sauce, or something like that.
Mm, no not really, it's just  mumbo sauce.
Yeah, go go- A lot of people in DC- Uh, ten.
Ten, eleven.
Well when we're younger our uncle used to play a lot of go go.
He still do.
Well from older people we s- we hear  like older versions now  that they play.
I- it's uh- Yeah, it could b- it's different because we have music today  and they r- remix it up  and put a lot of beats to it.
Yes, um, we- it's  old- it's new bands now  that have new things.
They have experience.
Old bands is so boring.
And old.
I j- Oh.
Uh, I see myself  uh,  playing basketball in college, I like basketball like, a lot.
Um,  I-  I wanna be a pediatric surgeon.
I plan on going to school  and  being successful.
Making money.
Lunch.
Lunch is nasty.
Uh,  Part it- part of it is because Michelle Obama, she making us eat healthy.
And  we wanna choose the way we wanna eat.
Yes.
Because the food now that she  did that the food has been nasty, and trying- trying to be healthy but it don't  look healthy.
It just look nasty.
Some people don't eat in school either, I don't eat.
Uh.
I don't know because people- a lot of people have hatred.
They hate on you and they want the stuff that you want.
For other children  Cause we have young  kids learning  from the older kids.
So I mean you pick up the habit it's no breaking it.
Yes.
Middle school.
My favorite teacher is I don't have a favorite teacher, I don't like no teachers.
No.
No, I-  I take notes.
When I take notes it's easier cause I don't have to study I just  take the notes and  it's easy for me to comprehend cause I just read it while I'm going.
I traveled a lot because of cheerleading, I traveled to Dallas,  Indiana, Florida.
Uh,  when I went it was very cold but  it felt different,  a different environment.
Yeah.
Indiana, Philly, Florida,  um- Uh, a lot.
I don't remember.
Yeah.
We had him for a long long time.
A long time.
Like at least ten years.
Well- we first got it I was- Well my dad came through the door and I was the first one right there and I looked through and I was happy.
It was for my mother birthday.
He smart.
No.
No.
He alert you.
No.
Do I feel safe around here?
Cause I don't like-  one time  from practice  I had to take the train home and I had to walk home  and I just watched my back and see if nobody be around me.
Yeah.
I had to go walk by myself.
Yes.
I'd rather move to Maryland, that's- I'm more familiar with that place than here.
I love my brothers because they funny.
They always play the game online I just watch them  argue, it's funny.
Uh, my  brothers keep me  motivated.
Um,    I encourage my brother to do better  than  people out here.
I want 'em to s- I wanna see them do better  and not just  stay in a small shell,  go out and accomplish what you wanna accomplish.
I love my brothers because,  um,  they just there for me  like nobody else.
I'd rather  be with my brothers than anybody else.
I don't care who they are, I'd just rather be with my brothers.
Cause I feel safe around them and  we trust each other.
On fleek means like  if you got- just got something done  then  it's cute,  or it's  perfect,  or it's fly.
Or- Yeah.
But boys don't say that, girls who say it.
Cause like- Yeah like they just got they eyebrows done like my eyebrows on fleek.
They perfect.
Lunching you acting crazy.
Like,  you lunching.
Like  y-   We  w- know what the meaning is but we don't have a real definition we just know what it is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like to play basketball.
Uh, I remember one time we played three point contest on NBA.
And uh,  on the Wii, we play bowling, And the boxing game on the Wii.
I don't remember that game.
Well I remember I was the best in three point contest.
No we just pick whoever.
But- Mm-hm.
Yes.
No I cheered.
I used to cheer.
Yeah.
Uh, I'm chill, I'm not the type of person to start drama.
I don't-  I get irritated fast so I hate when people touch me.
Uh,  I mostly just stay on my phone,  be stay to myself.
Uh,  I make a lot of friends but I watch who my friends are.
Only have  four friends.
Two best friends and two of my girls  that I chill with.
Um-  uh,  I'm just chill.
I'm a cool person to hang with, I'm funny and goofy.
That's it.
Um,  I say sometimes this world is washed up.
They just-  well,  we-  uh, some people  they just see what they wanna do and they do it, some people see what they want and they get it they don't save up.
They just like  spending.
That's how some people are becoming poor  cause they spend a lot  and they  just see what they-  what- see what famous people have and they want it.
And that's w- not  their worths.
Uh,  yeah.
Some people-  sometimes this world is jealous over people.
Because of what they have and they just shoot and kill and stuff.
That's h- why we have violence going on now.
It's because hatred.
I feel like I have to stay cautious  because you don't know what's going on.
Um,   you could get- we- I could get kidnapped  or stuff like that.
That's why I stay around with bunch of people.
If I'm by myself I keep my phone on me.
And just stay around,  and look around.
Sometimes I don't feel safe.
Uh,  differently?
Oh, I haven't experienced  feeling differently  from other people.
No, not really.
Like when- okay, like,  racism to me is like when  I-  when a w- uh-  okay.
When a person of not my color do something  they get away with it.
But if I do something but in a good way, I  get mistreated by  a higher person like a police.
No, not really they just  have the law by their side.
Like they feel black people is a threat to them.
That's what I think,  for us, racism is.
Ignorant.
I never knew it was a big deal but  I know that  people wanted Obama  in the chair because he was black  and he would take up-  up for us black people.
And he would help us.
That's what  I think.
Ocean City, Virginia Beach, Florida.
Nothing.
No.
Noth- it's the same.
But we had fun in Florida, Florida was the best.
Because  We had good hotel, we went to the pool, Uh- Yeah.
And we had a cook out.
It was cool.
Yes.
We went to a Wizards game.
Yeah I like the Wizards  Go.
Uh, and we have two great  leaders, John Wall and Bradley Beal.
I think  they  c- encourage the team to do better.
We have a new rookie  uh, Kelly Oubre.
He good.
Uh,  I like him because  he- he  he looks strong, he looks  like he wants to carry the team to the, uh, playoffs and win for the first time  in a long time.
Uh,  we have Otto Porter, he okay.
He- he aight.
We have Nene.
Big  He aight.
Uh,  we have  Sessions, he cool, he a good secondary point guard.
And yeah.
It was cool, I liked seeing player- my pl- my favorite players.
You're welcome.