Born and raised.
Uh,  I was right th-  there off of uh, where Benning Road turns into Southern Avenue.
Hillside Road.
That area.
I don't think it- No, it's-` It- They usually try to incorporated all of that with Benning Heights.
S- And so-  Since we're fr-  down- So, I don't what they call our area.
No, I'm in on the DC- on the Southeast side.
Where you walk across the street and Maryland is on the other side.
You know where um,  it used to be called Antoinette Gardens when we were coming up, but it's called Highline Ridge now?
The apartment complex that sit on the- Not necessarily a high rise,  but  say for instance you're going up Benning Road.
You know where Benning Road turns into Southern Avenue, where you bare right like you going up the hill?
Soon as you bare right,  make that very first right hand turn.
That's Easy Place.
It's a hidden street.
Mm-hm.
Johnny Boys?
Okay.
Okay, in that apartment complex.
That's Penn Southern.
Yes.
No, not at all.
Yes.
Yes.
I went-  Elementary school I went to RD-SCHOOL-5.
And that's over on New Jersey Avenue, Northwest.
And high school, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 and RD-SCHOOL-5.
My field of choice is customer service rep.
I'm a customer service rep.
No, my dad was born and raised in New York, the Bronx.
And my mom was born and raised in Petersburg, Virginia.
Well my mom,  before she passed, she was um,  quality assurance coordinator for JB Johnson Nursing Home.
And my dad is a retired postal service worker.
My-  Okay.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
This is the story that I got.
My dad and my mom's cousin were in the military together.
And  he- my dad went to Norfolk  for a weekend or something with my mom's cousin.
And they met then.
How they ended up in Petersburg was because DC- I mean how they ended up in DC was DC  is almost like a middle point between New York and Petersburg.
So they made it convenient for both of 'em.
No, he was in the Army.
Airborne, jumping out of planes.
We still live in my childhood home.
Okay.
Well, when we were coming up, the neighborhood was full of kids.
We were those kids that could go outside-  I mean play, rip and run- And this is  my childhood, so  we had not a care in the world.
Where versus now, you know, a lot of kids have a lot of cares that-  So we would go out,  play.
All of us that grew up together are still really really close.
We consider each other family.
And over the last couple of years,  we've seen a lot of the residents that had been there since the early seventies, they've either passed on  or they've gotten older and their kids are back in the house.
Um, the newest people on our block actually just moved in  maybe about three weeks ago.
Um, whereas though, prior to then,  um,  the newest neighbors have been there f- within the last five years.
So there- Th- More kids are coming back to the neighborhood slowly but surely.
Whereas though,  at one point in time, as we grew up,  there weren't any more kids there.
We were the kids, yeah.
So.
They come in and they end up blending right with the neighborhood.
Whereas though when were coming- When we were like,  in our teens, we would do block parties.
You know, it was- It's almost like-  Where we live it's Easy Place, and then we get to the end of Easy Place,  Forty Sixth Street runs there, so that was part of our community.
And then you go up, and if you turn l- left or right, that's Reed Terrace and that was part of our community.
So they had a  community  organization called Easy Place Community Square,  where we incorporated and got everybody out, and  the neighbors will decorate their front yards.
We would  block off the street, have a good time.
DJ, ponies, you name it, we had it.
And that was up until, I wanna say,     they stopped doing it  early  two thousand.
Oh, well nobody knows.
I guess people got tired of  soliciting help and  you know, some of the dynamics changed where neighbors just  were getting older and didn't want to do it anymore.
Um- Right.
No, because all of the residents that are still there are staying firmly in-  staying right in DC.
And  it's home.
It's no way that they gonna push us out.
That's why  even now,  my dad still lives in our h- in the house.
But  I refuse to leave DC.
Because you're not gonna push me out of my city .
And that's what they're trying to do.
They're trying to push us out to PG County, Charles County.
I refuse to go.
I- I- I tried Maryland.
It's nothing like DC.
No, they're not.
Just the love you get from it.
I mean, I guess cause I grew- actually grew up in the city,  I have a deep love for DC.
I- That's one of the reasons- I went to school in Atlanta.
I got my two year Associate's degree.
I couldn't wait to get back home.
A- I came back home, and  I'm here.
Yeah, but- It's a different feel.
It's a little more southern.
And  I didn't know it.
I knew home.
That's all I knew was home.
So I came on back home.
Mm, yes.
When I came back home, I had no place to go.
I didn't leave home until I was- How old is my son?
RD-NAME-1 is seven.
I didn't leave home home until I was like thirty six, thirty seven.
I stayed home all that time.
And at that point it was just time for me to spread my wings.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Well,   what we used to do, is have surprise water fights.
Somebody,   would just go in the house and get a pitcher of water and come back out and dump it on somebody.
And this is what we did as kids.
So then next thing you know, you got all the kids scurrying in the house to get something or going to the side, getting a water hose, or  we  bike riding up and down the streets, skating up and down the streets.
And then,  we had a lady that lived next do- still lives next door to my dad,  that  she would get some of us neighborhood kids and take us on bus rides.
She- We'd ride from  our side of town all the way up to Georgetown.
We'd go to the GC Murphy's up Georgetown,  the Woolworth's.
I mean, little things like that,  and I'm noticing now n-  kids nowadays, they don't-  They don't do that.
I even see that with my niece and nephew.
I'm like, y'all crazy.
Get out, explore.
That's how you gonna know things.
I remember us when we became teenagers,  getting-  having our summer jobs, getting our checks.
We would  get on the bus- get on the W four, catch it up to Alabama and  Road, and get on the thirty two bus and catch that all the way up Georgetown  to go shopping, to hang out.
Or on a Saturday,  when the Senator was open, we'll get our little movie money, go down there and spend all day at the Senator.
The movie theater that used to be right there on Benning Road.
You didn't know that?
Oh, child, we saw the same- Yeah, well- it- You know where the Subway is next to the Downtown Locker Room?
It's a Subway and a Beauty and Barber Supply that sits right there.
That used to be the Senator.
And if you look at the top of the billboard- They didn't tear the whole front  portion of the- of the building down,  but if you look  at the very top of  those two locations, you'll see it still says senator.
And that was our neighborhood movie theater.
For about  a dollar fifty to two dollars, you could go down there and see two movies.
No, you can't nowadays.
Mm-hm.
So those are things that we did.
I remember where Unity Health Clinic,  right there on Minnesota Avenue used to be a Giant.
Yes.
They closed long before Safeway opened.
There used to be a Giant um-  trying to think.
You know right there on Benning Road where they tore the Popeye's down?
Yes.
That used-  Yes, that used to be Gino's Fried Chicken.
Um, at the top of Coral Hills where  the Shoppers is now?
At the very t- Keep going up.
At the very top of Coral Hills, that used to be a Giant and a CVS.
When CVS- Before CVS became CVS it was called People's,  People's Drug Store.
Um,  Trying to think of what else has changed.
Yeah it's a lot of CVS' along the line, but these are things that we saw change, you know, over the years.
Um, I remember when-  Where the laundromat is,  um, right there at the corner East Capitol and Benning Road?
And the Benco Shopping Center?
That used to be  a grocery store.
Where um, Kipp DC is now?
That used to be what we used to call The Market.
We used to can go down there,  and it was different little- e- sh- stands inside of there.
We could shop for hair goods,  t shirts.
You- they had a place in there that had the best f-  ch- steak and cheese.
I mean these are all the things that we saw-  You know, we've seen change over the years.
The um, corner store that sits right there next to  Kipp used to be  a People's Drug Store.
And if you go further up Benning Road,  on  the left hand side, right there- I think that's Benning Road and H,  that used to be  the only black owned  record store  on this side of town, and it was called Anne's Record Shop.
And then  where the hair braiding place is now, that used to be a cleaners.
And then,  the twenty four hour store  used to be an actual Seven Eleven.
It has changed dramatically.
I think it's gonna be the point where it stands still cause a lot of  Ward Seven and Ward Eight  are those lost wards where  we're the last to get everything.
When- didn't- And the sad part about it is Ward Eight is even  last to get  what we get.
So,  I mean- And to me,  the change,  I don't think it will be accepted well.
Because  in these areas, you have a lot of places what they consider to be affordable housing.
And if you come in and you're remodeling and rebuilding, where-  where are the people that can't  afford  market rent- Where are they gonna go?
You gonna push them out  somewhere else.
Or the ra- the rate of homelessne- ness is gonna go up.
Yeah.
And um, actually our church did a um-  They had a study group with someone from GW about  the changes  in the dy- The changes in dynamics within Ward Seven.
And I was telling her where- Like a lot of these government agencies-  DHS for- is the prime example- I've really have a big problem with them  because  you go over there- That's the one right there on Alabama Avenue.
You go over there,  and  you're trying to get assistance,  but the attitude-  You got to deal with the attitude, and I actually had to tell somebody in there,  Ma'am, you don't know my circumstance.
You don't know what prompted me to get to where I am.
I'm not one of these lazy individuals out here  that's just looking for a handout, I lost my job.
So, that's why I'm here for this.
I don't have to come here f-  for the attitude.
And  these are things that you have to incur within our community.
And like you said, the fresh fruit.
You go look at the Safeway down there on- on Minnesota Avenue,  it's terrible.
And that's one of the only grocery stores that we have within the Ward Seven community on this side.
So,  if we don't go there, we have to have a car to go  elsewhere.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And I- I live in- I live in Mayfair right over here um,    off of Kenilworth Avenue, and  I shouldn't have to leave outside of my community to go to the grocery store.
But I do.
I find myself traveling to Laurel or I'm going out to Forestville.
You know, somewhere like that.
So,  in those aspects, when we were coming up, we had more grocery stores and things like that that we could choose from, and  it was better.
You know, it was a lot better.
Now, they just giving us what they feel like  we should have.
And  if we don't voice our opinion, it's never gonna change.
And if you look up and you see corner store after corner store after corner store after corner store,  come on now.
Not everybody is in the business of going to grab something  quick to eat.
I cook.
You can look at my son and tell  I cook.
So,  you know, it's just things that  they don't have to offer, but  I'm not going anywhere .
Mm-hm.
No, but I did go to the Boys and Girls Club up in Georgetown every summer cause my mom worked at Georgetown University.
So therefore, she had to pus-  put me somewhere, and  that's where I got a lot of expo-  Here's where I got a lot of exposure to everything.
Um,  I remember being in a Monopoly tournament, winning a gold medal.
I remember us going swimming.
I remember us going on nature hikes through the woods.
I re- I mean,  these are all the things that I remember so,  the experience that I had with the Boys and Girls Club, is what drew me here.
And not only that, the aftercare is affordable.
Whereas though, when he was at Arts and Technology,   first of all, they didn't give vouchers.
Second of all, y-  y- I was paying three hundred and thirty six dollars a month  just for aftercare.
And  for fifty dollars a month here,  he gets exposed to a whole lot more versus  yeah,  you got- They fed him in the evenings.
I can do that.
I can cook, so-  You know, they fed him in the evenings, and  they did homework.
They do that here.
And,  like I said I- my experience coming up was always a good one, so I wanted him to have, you know, that same- Yes.
I don't remember who.
It's been so long.
I'm for- He probably was-  Mm-hm.
And just like I send RD-NAME-1 here during spring break, I was there during spring break.
You know?
And it- it-  it's just a good experience.
And I tell  any of my friends that have kids, Get 'em to the Boys and Girls Club.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Wow.
And see that was one- Cause um,  RD-NAME-2 school, Arts and Technology, ended up closing.
And I felt as it was time for him to have a change of scenery.
And one of the reasons why I chose DC Prep where he goes to school at was because  they still picked up  from the Boys and Girls Club.
Mm-hm.
And I d- I mean, and I trust all the staff member here.
They love RD-NAME-1 to death, even though they drive- He drives 'em crazy, but  I- I- I trust 'em.
I really do,  and I know that they will look out for him.
And that- that's important to me.
And- Yeah, and even my dad, he said, oh,  I st- Cause when they send him the donation request,  he said, oh, I make sure I give to them because RD-NAME-1 goes there.
So he gives back in his own way too as well, which is good.
I have one brother.
Yeah.
Jesus.
It's just- I'm- And I'm- I'm the youngest of the- It's seven years between me and my brother.
Yeah-huh.
Well we had our fair share.
But he used to just torture me.
He- Let me see.
He's burned my ear tryna curl my hair.
Um, he burnt my leg tryna put creases in some socks.
See, my mother- my mother when we were coming up,  she  went to school at night, and that's how she finally earned her Bachelor's degree.
And I think it was in  eighty seven or eighty eight, she earned her Bachelor's degree.
So of course,  I had to stay home with my brother.
I know this so- may sound gross, but he sat on my head and farted before.
I mean he's done-  Yes!
But  if something was to happen or somebody messes with me,  he was on it,  dead on it.
Cause I remember  one of the girls we grew up with,  she smacked me in my face.
It didn't hurt that bad  but I saw my brother standing over there, so I crowd real loud.
And he came to my rescue.
I was like, ah!
I remember it like it was yesterday.
I remember we used to camp outside at night  in the front yard.
One, two o'clock in the morning, we outside with our home made- No they- You can't, but  like, RD-NAME-1- I make him go outside.
He is not one of those kids that has to have video games.
Cause actually he's been punished from his video games since January, and he hasn't even aksed for it.
He would rather go outside,  and I'm like this, goodbye.
Go ahead.
Cause that's what we did.
Mm-mm.
He actually taught hisself how to ride his bike one day .
No!
He just happened to take his bike outside one day- No, what happened was his tire was flat, so he was like, mom!
The man said that he can um,  fix your t- fix my tire for me.
So I said, what man?
So I walked over there-  I'm tryna turn my phone off.
I walked over there to him and um-  walked over there and was like, he's not over here bugging you is he?
He was like, no, my- I'm'a come out here with my son, and  I-  I have to do all the little boys' bikes.
So,  the guy was like, I'm'a tighten up his training wheels, too.
RD-NAME-1 was like, I don't want my training wheels on!
So I said,  well just keep 'em on for right now.
So the next day, he went outside with his bike.
He come back in the house.
Mom, one of my training wheels came off.
He took it off.
So , I said, well- I said, well, guess what?
If  that happened,  I don't know how you gonna ride your bike cause I'm not buying no more training wheels w-.
So then the next day  he went back out there.
The other one mysteriously came off, and he was like, ma, I know how to ride my bike now.
I said, no you don't.
Yes I do.
So then,  where the walk way is, my bedroom window is right there.
He was right there on his bike on the walk way.
So I said, RD-NAME-1, you don't know how to ride your bike.
He said, yes I do.
I said, let me see.
He got on his bike and took off.
My heart just melted cause I was like, that's not my baby anymore!
I was like, wow.
So then he gets on the phone and calls Dad.
I need a bigger bike.
So now he- he got a bigger bike.
And I want one that switch gears, too.
I said, okay.
He's fancy.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
S- He's seven.
He'll be- Two-  Two years.
Getting ready to go into his third year.
Mm-hm.
And he's doing a be- He's gonna be here.
Uh-huh.
He's gonna be a- That's right.
Mm-hm.
And see, a lot of times he gets a chance to have that interaction with males.
Yeah, my dad is around.
My dad is seventy three.
My brother is around, but he works all the time.
So, and RD-NAME-2 father does not step up to the plate like he should  as a father  of a young black male.
So, a lot of the interaction that he gets between here and church  is the only interaction he gets with a male.
So, like I tell Mr.
Jack, take him under your wing.
And he was like, that's my boy.
I'm'a make sure he alright.
I said, and if you need to jack him up, go ahead.
Cause guess what?
It takes a village.
And  between here and church,  that's my village.
Pilgrim Rest Baptist Church, right off Sheriff Road.
It's um, right up the street from D- Uh, First Baptist Church of Deanwood.
Forty six eleven Sheriff Road.
Please!
Our Family and Friends Day is August second.
Um,  both seven forty five and eleven ser- eleven o'clock service.
I got to sing in both of those services.
It's gonna be dynamic.
Cause we're gonna have a um, pastor from Rafting Creek, South Carolina come up and preach for Family and Friends Day, so please come out.
Well my mom was a only child, and my dad has two brothers and a sister.
They're not as close  as I think family should be.
They're close, but they're not real close cause  one uncle lives in North Carolina and another one is in Michigan, and then  my aunt is in Kansas.
Yeah.
But  they come down every s- Like when my great aunt passed in New York, um,  the middle of  last summer,  my uncles were here.
My aunt didn't come down, but my uncles were here.
So we got a chance to spend time with them, and  RD-NAME-1 got a chance to, you know, interact with them.
But like as far as my cousins and things like that are concerned,  my mother had cous- her cou- her first cousins, and we grew up with their children, and then we always had extended family cause my godmother is here.
She had five girls, and um,  I do have  m- one of my girlfriends,  we say we're sisters Cause we've been friends since she was three and I was six.
So that's my sister.
So  her and I sometimes are each other's backbone.
We're each other's support system, too, as far as  anything is concerned.
I do f-  I- I- No, I do Sunday dinner every Sunday at my house.
Um- Please do.
And- I- People like, well why do you cook so much?
Because  I grew up  in a family- with my mom.
If you come past,  and it's Sunday,  I can offer you a meal.
And I'm a firm deliver in Sunday dinner because Sunday starts your week off, so I do two meats, the fresh vegetable,  a starch, maybe two starches depending on  in the day,  that's how I-  Mm-hm.
My favorite teacher at elementary school was Miss RD-NAME-4.
She was  the  best eighth grade teacher cause she cared about her kids, and we cared about her.
And she's actually the principal over at  um-    I can't think of the name of the elementary school, but it's on- right on Minnesota Avenue.
No.
Minnesota and  uh, Eli Place.
I can see it too, but I can't think of the name.
But that's the school that she's at, and she impacted all of our lives cause she's one that-  She just didn't accept- When it came down to her kids, she just didn't accept no for an answer.
And her heart was there.
And actually after our class left, she left the school .
I think she's been principal since then.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
What is the name?
Mm.
Uh-huh.
I- Mm, no.
I wa-  School wasn't my big- It wasn't my big- I- I did it because I had to, but it wasn't one-  anything that I enjoyed  until I got to RD-SCHOOL-5.
I was on a pom squad.
And then part of the reason, my brother graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2, too, when it was all boys.
I was the second graduating class um, of coed.
Do you remember Coach Battle?
He  was the first graduating class  from RD-SCHOOL-2 in the co ed in- uh- when we went coed.
So he came out in ninety, and I came out in ninety one.
We did band competitions.
We went to Florida and did a band competition, and we loved our band director, Miss Nines.
She was a feisty white lady   that didn't take no for an answer again, and when it came down to her kids,  she was involved.
You know, in every aspect.
If our grades was slipping, she would pull us by the shirt collar and say, look, get it together, else you're gonna be off my team.
So she made sure that her kids were  on top of their game.
No.
Uh, eleventh and twelfth grade.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Y- We could have, but when we were um, a all girls school they didn't have a pom squad.
Yeah, and I wasn't one that was built f- to be a cheerleader.
My rhythm is not  the best.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then I was the- I was the one that- I want to say a class clown,  but I believed in having fun.
And I never spent money- my own money on lunch.
I used to go around with a cup every day ,  that put on the side of it , The poor, the needy, the greedy-  The poor, the needy  and greedy fund.
Please help me get my lunch.
And I would get my lunch that way every day.
Every day, and then  my favorite subject in high school,  Mr.
RD-NAME-3.
Um,  he taught Social Justice.
And he impacted everybody's lives cause we were able to o-  He opened our eyes to a lot of things, be it the Civil Rights Movement,  apartheid over in South Africa,  um- We had to do a three dimensional tour of DC  where  we could either start over at Arlington Cemetery and walk from Arlington Cemetery  back over to DC or start in DC and end at Arlington Cemetery where we would have to  pick something up at each one of the landmarks.
H- Um, we had to do a shaving of a certain name on the um-  What wall is that?
Is that the AIDS Wall  that's downtown?
I can't remember which wall it is.
The Vietnam Memorial, we w- had to do a rubbing from off of there.
Um,  we had to meet at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
It was just so many things,  and that gave us an opportunity to see DC on foot because we couldn't catch the bus to each one of those locations.
We had to walk it.
So that opened our eyes.
Exactly.
And then um,  we worked at soup kitchens.
We had to- It was mandatory for us to volunteer at the soup kitchens.
As part of the class, so that gave us an opportunity to see  life on the other side.
Um, what else did we do ?
He used to give-  He used to just do crazy stuff.
He was just like,  weird.
But everybody that came through his class,  learned  something.
And my brother even had him,  and he graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 in eighty four,  so a lot of the teachers,   that my brother had- Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
And they used to say, we feel so sorry for you.
But yeah, Social Justice was like the best class.
No.
They don't take-  take-  They don't take advantage of it.
M-  They just- I mean some of 'em  aren't taught to go and do those types of things.
Some of 'em are just taught to just  accept the city for what it is.
But if they get out, and they see the beauty that's within the city,  I think a lot of people would appreciate it a lot more.
And uh, I really do.
But, they don't.
It's sad.
I look around at-  sometimes at some of these kids  that are  our future, and I just  get sick to my stomach  because I'm like,  these are the people that's gonna have to take care of us when we get older.
That's why I refuse to allow my son to be  any old thing out here.
He might try his hand in getting over, but it's not gonna happen.
It's not gonna happen.
You know how- well-  I mean, a lot of people might say that this is petty.
I m- He's not allowed to say, yeah.
What is yeah?
It's yes.
And if he say's, yeah to me, I'm like, what do you say?
Oh, yes Mommy.
Ye- I mean, it's certain things that we have to instill in our kids.
And if we don't instill it, then nobo- The streets are gonna get 'em, and that's why I try to- Between here and church I try to keep him involved in something.
He sings in a choir at church too,  so I try to keep him as busy as possible.
Go to school and get your education  because that is the only way that we are gonna be able to progress as a society  is through education.
There are so many programs, so many opportunities within the city  that we don't take advantage of.
Like,  I r- lost my job in December.
I could have sat at home and did nothing all day,  but I went and took free classes from UDC Work Force Development.
I got a cert- I got my certification in Front Desk.
I was gonna go back and do Leasing and Property Management cause that's where I want to go next with my customer service experience,  but then I ended up getting the temp position that I have now.
But  once I'm finished this temp assignment,  I'm still gonna go back to school, and I did free- Buy Back, office- Free computer classes.
It's no reason why anybody in this city should not know how to work a computer.
Because there are programs out there that we need to take advantage of.
We get a lot more advanta-  more things to do here in DC than you do in Maryland.
Maryland offers nothing.
Take advantage of it.
Yeah, take it.
Take- If they offering it, take advantage of it cause likeRD-NAME-2 um-  RD-NAME-1 has  four older sisters,  and two of his older sisters  I raised through foster care.
And  I used to tell them,  I hate the situation that y'all are in,  but y'all are in the best situation that anybody could aks for.
Go to school, get your education.
Get those grades-  They will pay for four- any four year institution.
If it's Princeton that you want,  guess what?
You can do Princeton.
Take advantage of what they giving you because  guess what?
Hindsight is twenty twenty, and that's when the woulda shoulda couldas are gonna set in.
Want to know how?
Cause I'm the woulda coulda shoulda.
I came back home.
I went to UDC.
Started out going to school full time,  not working.
My mother and them was like, we don't want you to work.
We want you to focus on your education.
But they wasn't putting the money in my pocket cause I could go party now!
So  f-  I started  going to school full time, and I was working full time.
I was going to school on  Tuesdays and Thursdays from eight o'clock in the morning to eight o'clock at night.
I was working Sunday, Monday, Wednesday,  Friday and Saturday.
So eventually   after awhile, I got tired of doing that.
School  became part time.
Work became full time.
So eventually,  you know what happens.
School became nonexistent at all, and  w- at- at the age that I'm at now,  that's where the woulda coulda shouldas,  you know, set in.
I thought I was on top of the world,  and here it is,  I- I'm the lowest thing on the totem pole now  because I don't have that  degree behind my name.
I don't have those credentials that they're looking for.
Yes, I have the experience, but they don't want to pay me the money because I don't have that degree.
Or I don't have  what exactly they're looking for in way of education.
So I'm fighting with-  I have  seventeen plus years of customer service experience,  but they want you to have a degree in something else.
So, I have to accept a job pay of seventeen dollars a hour when I know my potential  to make much more, but I don't have that.
So I- I told them, take advantage of whatever educational opportunities that there are afforded out here,  take advantage of 'em.
Because that's the only way that we gonna be able to get ahead,  if you just keep going to school.
And of course, they didn't listen.
One of 'em dropped out  eleventh grade year, and the other one, she graduated from high school.
And she started- I don't know what happened cause I actually ended up having them removed from my house,  but um,  she started going to UDC but I don't know what happened  but she's not in school anymore.
So, I'm just like, y-  y'all blew it  because free- free!
Nobody has to pay for anything.
Exactly!
You don't have to worry about going out here getting a- a loan.
None of that.
So,  I just tell anybody, get your education.
Do what you got to-  Do what you got to do.
Education, education, education.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
And I t- It's- It's funny.
I look back at  the group of girls that  I used to run with.
I was always that one that was on top of my game, making money.
Now all of 'em surpassing me.
And I'm like, okay.
It's time for me to get on my game.
They were  I was what they considered from the private homes.
They was from the projects  down in Simple City.
I don't know if you heard it- That's where they grew up at.
But  those were my homies.
They still are.
Those are my-  Those are my girls!
Even though we came from two separate sides of the track,  that never  was a barrier for us.
You know, cause like I used to  tell th- And I think they got a lot of their work ethics from me because they used to say, are you serious?
You're still at work?
Oh, uh-huh.
I'm not gonna sit at- Whatever has to happen is gonna happen after I get off of work, but I'm going to work.
I will party  one, two o'clock in the morning, but guess what?
I'm gonna get up and go to work.
It's no calling in.
It- it w- That wasn't an option.
So now- And they're the s-  exact opposite.
I mean, I'm still that way but you know, they that-  the  direct opposite, but I used to tell them all the- get- Get up off your butt!
Do a job.
Don't let no- Ain't no man gonna take care of you always.
That's gonna get tired after awhile, and don't no man want no woman that's just gonna sit home and do nothing all day.
So by all means, get up.
Do what you got to do.
One of 'em is um, a leasing  specialist for Arlington Federal  Government  Housing Authority.
Um,  my best friend is now  a GM for Lucky Strike.
Um,  those two are the only ones.
Course my sister, she's in home health care.
Um, my girlfriend Shawnie, I saw her  work the system.
She was a single mother of two  on public assistance, but she used public assistance  to the best of her ability.
She started working-  Her daughter might have been  two at the time.
Her youngest daughter was two at the time.
And she did the welfare to work program.
And she got  a job  at  Virginia Hospital Center  out in Virginia in the human resources department.
She's now  the human resources-  Head of human resources over there.
So  the system,  if you use it, it'll work for you.
And when I say she took advantage- And I think that's part of the reason why when I did have to go and sign up for TANF in January, I said, I can make it work for me.
Cause the lady-  I was feeling kind of bad about going because I'm like,  Welfare, me?
No!
I'm not sup- It's a humbling experience because it makes you realize,  you know,  it's things that you need to change.
It's things that you should have done better.
Once again, the hindsight is always twenty twenty, but I was feeling some type of way because that  wasn't  the place where I should have been.
I'm- I'm- Like I said, I've always been one to work.
I've been working since I was  seventeen, eighteen years old.
So, to have to go and do something like that, it opens your eyes to a whole lot.
But the lady was like, RD-NAME-3,    I know  that  you have a-  y- you know, you have reservations about coming down here.
She was like, but do you know that you're in the best predicament that you possibly can because  TANF will pay for your four year degree.
They will pay for it.
They pay al- an- uh- Yes!
You- They give you five years to be on the system,  and  if you can obtain a four a year degree within those five years,  they're-  they will pay for it as long as it's an accredited school within the District of Columbia.
So you can go to Howard.
You can go to Trinity.
You can go to UDC.
You can go to GW.
You can go to Georgetown.
They will pay for it.
I- You love it?
I love it too.
Yes.
But yeah-  Yeah, but they pay for it.
And they-  while they are paying for it,  they will pay you  to go to school.
How- And after she said that, it made me feel a little bit better.
Um,  how they do it now,  they make you  go to job readiness class.
They make- It's okay.
They make you go to um,  job readiness-  Okay.
Depending upon w-  Once you do the assessment, cause they give you a s- assessment once you go in-  Depending upon where you score at on the assessment,  they'll tell you you need skill classes to get up to par or you're ready  to go to work.
So, and then they assign you a vendor.
So, if you go to the vendor for at least thirty hours a week,  they give you extra seventy five dollars in a-  a week in addition to the monthly stipend that they already give you.
All you got to do is get off your lazy butt and go do it.
They hadn't even assigned me to a vendor but guess what?
I was getting up going to-  um-  What is the name of it?
I can't think of the name of the-  the-  program I was going to.
That extra seventy five dollars came in handy.
That's gas.
Yeah, that- I mean, and I'm like, okay.
How can y'all not take advantage of this?
And then even when I started going to UDC, as long as I had somebody sign off on my time sheets over there at the Work Force Development building,  I was still getting my money.
And that's how they do it.
And  when I say people they don't take advantage of it,  they don't at all.
Yeah, and then the- the thing about it is they have  different locations to do the Work Force Development.
I went to PR Har- Over- PR Harris over on South Capitol Street,  but they have a Work Force Development office right here on  East Capitol Street at the old Shadd Elementary school.
And when I say they offer so many things, HVAC,  um,  leasing and property management, customer service rep,  uh, front desk representative,  um-  They even have a program where you can do hospitality up at Bertie Backus.
Um-  What else?
Computer classes.
You can go to be a um,    dialysis technician,  um, home health aid.
They have- When I say so many things, um, carpentry,  uh- What else?
Electrician.
I-  It's so many things that they offer  that-  When I see classes half empty,  they crazy.
I- I just don't get it.
And then not only do they offer classes during the day, but they offer classes at night too.
That's why I'm gonna go and do that leasing property management because if I can get that certification  under my belt  accomp- m-  along with  this  front desk one that I already have and my customer service experience,  I can live,  you know, way on  what my salary would be.
And-  Mm-hm.
Right.
It- Mm-hm.
And I'm going- Not only am I gonna do that, I'm gonna go back to Byte Back  and do um,  office track  where-  I'm good with um, Word, and I'm good with-  Word and it's another one that I'm good with -  But as far as  Power Point and Excel, I'm not good with but they offer all of those in one class.
And once you complete the class, they give you a free computer.
What more can you ask for.
You going to school-  You going to school for free, and they gonna give you a free computer.
Take advantage of it.
Six weeks.
When I did the beginners one and two-  I did that just to  do something cause I knew all the stuff .
Um,  we went on Mondays- Mondays and Wednesdays.
I did that.
I did my- on Mondays and Wednesdays I did that class, and then  Monday though Thursday,  we were in-  I was in my class at UDC.
I would go to one from UDC from nine to one,  and then-  No, nine to twelve, and then at one o'clock, my computer class would start so I'd go from one to three to that.
That's my day.
Other than that, I be just sitting in the house looking crazy.
Power Point.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And then the thing about it is, a lot of the times  the city won't let the people know about these programs.
You got to go and research it for yourself, but- And not everybody is gonna do the research.
You have some that you have to take by the hand  and lead 'em to it.
And-  And once you lead it to 'em, it's left up to them whether or not they gonna take it-  Some will, some won't.
I know I did.
I- I did the research cause I-  I-  Sitting at home was not a option for me, and plus  um- It was a dramatic effect on RD-NAME-1, too.
When he would see me- okay, Mommy just throwing on something to take me back-  take me to school, and she coming back home so I'm'a act up in school so I can go back home with her.
No.
It's not gonna happen.
Cause he was used to Mommy getting up, dropping him off at school.
She going to work, come back and picking him up, not going home.
So once he saw that  I was back doing some of the regular routines, he got a little bit  you know, better of it because our situation  can have a dramatic effect on our children  in so many ways.
You might think-  Well I- at least I thought,  he's not paying attention to me.
You know, he's l- But he clearly was.
He clearly was, and I was like, okay.
I got to do something about this.
And I did.
Cause that's my baby.
He my only baby.
And I'm not- I knew when I was pregnant with him, I wasn't having any more kids.
Uh-uh.
If-  If they would have tied my tubes then- do you know- They gonna tell me, no, we can't do that cause you only have one and you're not married.
I know what I'm'a have.
Let me have my moment  cause he came early, and the lady when they were wheeling me in the d- labor and delivery room,  Well next time, you're gonna have to have a cerclage done.
I said, there will be no next time.
So guess- Miss me with all of that.
So it's not gonna be a next time.
Okay.
Yes!
I l- I love go go.
Not-  The go go now is not the go go  that I grew up on.
The lyrics.
The dances.
The atmosphere as a whole.
We could go to the go go  and everybody would party together.
You might have a fight here and there,  you might not.
But everybody was there to do the w- had one common goal, and that was to party.
I grew up with  my first- very first band- My brother worked at Crystal Skates,  and  they would have the go go bands on the back skating rink.
And Trouble Funk was my very first go go I went to.
I may have been in like, the eighth grade.
But I was with my big brother, and we were partying.
Even though my mother came to get me at twelve o'clock,  but-  Um,  I remember  when I got a little older, maybe  twenty one, twenty two,  I remember Rhythms Night Club  out in Landover.
All ladies were free before eleven.
Of course me and my girlfriends were, one two three four and five in line    for the free one.
I remember when they lost their liquor license but we could bring  alcohol in our water bottles.
And  we would just party.
When I say party- Oh my God, we would just party.
I remember the East Side down Southwest.
I remember the Black Hole up Northwest.
I remember Triples Night Club that used to be on Branch Avenue.
I remember when down Southwest when they built the Nat Stadium and all of that.
Um, the Mirage was down- That was one of the big night clubs.
I remember the Mirage.
I remember the Ibex, up on-  in uh, Northwest that used to sit right on the corner of Georgia Avenue and New Hampshire Avenue.
Um- It's a- Yeah, right up in that area.
Um, I remember- I remember    going to the  high schools,  Catholic schools, where I went-  They used to have the bands there.
We could party.
I remember home coming.
We had go go bands every year for home coming.
Um,   Yeah!
Mm-hm.
Um, some of the be-  We had, when we first went- go go first came about, you had Air Raid,  Trouble Funk,  Junk Yard.
Um,  it's not the same Junk Yard.
How they came up was  they used to play in front of the subway stations  beating on-  You know the big paint buckets?
The white plastic ones?
That's how they got their start.
Mm-hm.
Um, Trouble Funk,  Essence has always been around.
Um,  Northeast Groovers.
Who else?
Um,    I remember Fat Rodney used to  rap with one of the go go bands.
Um,  I'm trying to think.
I was a go go fanatic.
Chuck Brown.
Oh!
I remember,  at one time,  if Chuck or Essence wasn't playing at the Cabaret,  I wasn't going.
I remember  partying with Chuck right up front,  dancing, having a good time.
And when he died, I was just like, there go go go music down hill .
Um,  let me see.
It was another- Before Bella Donna came along, there was another all girl group  um, go go band.
I can't think of the name of it.
Um, there used to be a famous rapper that used to um,  rap with Essence called Stinky Dink.
Uh-huh.
I'm trying to think- Uh- Go go is just-  If you hear go go, you know that's DC.
Point blank.
Now actually,  just this past weekend, DC did-  DC take over Miami,  where Back Yard band played in Miami.
They called it- They had- It was- The weekend that just passed was called DC Take Over.
Chicken wings and mumbo sauce.
Chicken wings and mumbo sauce.
Your guess is as good as mine.
Cause I don't eat mumbo sauce.
Give me so me hot sauce.
And one of the big landmarks that used to be in this area too, was um, the Chef's Table.
Yes.
We used to- That was like  the 'it' place to go.
It was like one of the fancy restaurants back in the day because that was like, one of the only restaurants that sold chitlins.
They had chitlins and pig feet on the f- buffet bar.
Mm-hm.
Chitlins, pig feet.
I eat chitlins.
I eat- I don't eat pig feet, but I eat chitlins.
And I cook 'em.
I eat pig tails.
RD-NAME-1 eats all that stuff too, pig tails, chitlins.
Mm-mm.
He don't mind.
Mm-hm.
And I feel sorry for when he gets older cause whoever his girlfriend or wife is gonna be, she's gonna have to know how to cook.
Cause he's gonna come out and tell her, my mother don't cook-  Mm, I'm going to my mother's house.
Mm-mm.
I'm trying to think.
What is it- Something that I-   My favorite book-  I have a favorite TV show too.
But my favorite book is The Coldest Winter Ever by um, Sister Souljah.
Aw!
I have read it- I mean so many  times.
It's just the plight of this little black girl that  was used to having it all, but then her family lost it all, and she had to get out there and fend for herself.
When I say good read?
Aw, yes.
That one and um,    a book by Tracy Brown called White Lines.
That book is good too.
I read that- Um, it was about a girl  that g- I think she grew up from not having anything and then she ended up  marrying someone that was big in a gang.
And it talked about the trials and tribulations through all of that.
I used to- Before I had RD-NAME-1, I mean,  I was reading two or three books a week.
Um,  my favorite movie is The Color Purple.
RD-NAME-1 likes that too cause he watched it, and he embarrassed me in the store one day.
He was about  three.
Mom, we gonna go home and watch Purple Color?
You don't  tell people we- I ain't got you watching  Color Purple.
But, The Color Purple,  and I like  the little drama shows.
I like Love and Hiphop.
That- I mean, just to see their ratchetness and their drama.
Love and Hiphop.
I like Empire.
I haven't watched any of the season of Power this year.
I started watching it last night, but I like Power.
But for the- I like cooking shows.
Cooking shows or,  I'm a Tyler Perry fanatic.
I wake up on a Saturday, and I'm looking for his movies.
I don't care if it's I Can Do Bad All By Myself, Daddy's Little Girl.
You name it,  if it's him, I'm gonna watch it.
Um- Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
I remember- That was one of the memories I have  before my mom passed.
We went to go see Meet the Browns at Warner Theater.
Uh-huh.
That and-  I'm trying to think, cause it was something that I did the other day and I was like, I remember when me and-  I remember- My mother is the one that took me to see The Color Purple when it first came out in nineteen eighty five.
How old am I now?
I'm forty two now?
Yeah.
It was about that.
Yeah, I was actually- No, I was twelve  when it came out.
Mm-hm.
I love The Color Purple.
We went to a movie theater up in Georgetown.
I remember it was like, like it was yesterday.
Cause my mother- That was my ace.
We did our shopping together.
She taught me how to cook,  even though my dad did too, but she taught me how to cook.
She just taught me how to be a lady.
Some days it work, somedays it don't.
Mm-hm.
But like I tell any of these kids out here nowadays, you have to be versatile in your interaction with anybody.
You have to get out here and be lily white with the best of 'em.
And you can- It's okay for you to be ratchet and ghetto fabulous with your girlfriends but there's a time and a place for it.
But you know the sad part about it is, it's our own kind that- that  that  gets us  because I worked at the RD-WORK-2 in Croften.
I was doing my training there,  and  the manager, she was  of African American descent, and  she was one of those ones that thought that she- Because she worked out in Croften, and she lived in that area- in Annapolis area, whatever, that she was a little bit better than  you know, I was.
So, I had a customer that came in-  Rules are rules.
You know?
It all depends upon when-  You know, sometimes we can bend 'em, sometimes we can't.
But this lady had clearly worn whatever it was.
We couldn't take it back.
So then the manager comes over and was like, I'll take her.
So she took her, and she ended up taking the stuff back.
First of all, you went against what I had already told her.
We in management, we got to stick together.
So if I tell her no, you need to tell her the exact same thing.
I don't care if you're the store manager or not.
But then she came back over, and she was like-   Yeah, she aksed me were you from DC?
I said,  And how would she know anything like that?
She said, she could tell that you was from Southeast DC.
I said, you lying.
Because I know one- No way, shape, form, or fashion ever came out my mouth with anything slang  or anything hood.
I know how to present myself in front of anybody.
You had to have said something to her  cause you're the only one that I know have a problem with it.
And needless to say, a week later I quit.
I couldn't do it.
Because we got to support each other.
We got to be there for each other.
We-  If we don't uplift each other,  nobody else is gonna do it!
That's why when RD-NAME-3 called me and was like, do you mind doing it?
I said, not at all, especially if it's has- has anything with somebody furthering their education.
I have no problem with it at all.
So if you need me again, let me know.