Um,  how old are you RD-NAME-4?
Twenty eight.
Where you from?
What's so special about Washington DC?
When you say culture, what's a- Give me- give me an example.
Well you said DC has its own culture, give me an example.
Whether they're successful or not?
But they gonna look the part.
Why do you think it's that way?
Why do you- why do you-  why do you think it's that way around from where you're-  like from your particular neighborhood, why do you think it's that way?
Why do you think it's important- that's important?
Like why do you feel like people from your- from your neighborhood or from your- Or is your neighborhood like a-  like a rich community or mid- mid range?
Or is it- was it a poor community?
I- What- Describe your neighborhood.
When you say money, like millions and millions of dollars?
Mm-hm.
So  I aks you this.
You know, recently it came out that, um,  that the government just admitted  for pushing drugs into the community and all of that.
How do you feel about that?
Like they're- they admitted that they  pumped drugs into  the  African community  to  try to destroy that community.
How do you feel about that?
How do- how- and how has that  affected you in your neighborhood and how people go about that?
Mm.
Uh, that is disappointing knowing that  our government would do something like that.
Yeah, but tell me about your parents.
Mm-hm.
Uh it ain't nothing wrong with that.
So like,  the neighborhood you grew in, were y'all tight?
Were you like- were you tight with your friends when you grew up?
Were you, you know what I'm saying?
What's changed in DC?
Like what- what's changed?
If anything.
Gentrification?
Mm.
How do you feel about that?
I mean like you grew up- you been around there, your family been around there, their family, your family before that been around there, next thing you know, someone comes and buys it and then- and they raise the price that you can't afford it.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I feel you, man.
I feel you on that.
And I understand what you saying.
I understand.
So what about to like- So,  but like, do you- what are a couple- what are like a couple spots that you recommend to go to in DC?
Like, what was there when you were younger as opposed to now?
Mm-hm.
What are s- some of the words, what are some of the slangs you- How old you say you was?
Twenty eight?
What are some of the slangs that used to be said- words back then?
You mean like some of the same words?
What- what does that mean, moe?
What do you mean moe?
What does that mean?
So what does that mean?
Now give me an example.
Like use it-  Let's have a conversation where that- where you would have to say that.
What would I have to say to you right now?
So you not gonna use kill moe just in a normal just talking to somebody.
It has to be something that happened on the other side to make you say kill moe.
Mm-hm.
What about, like, do you have like family?
Like, is your family still here?
Like, all your family's here and all that?
Mm-hm.
Your grandmother, well tell me about them.
You have a good relationship with your grandmother?
Mm.
I know you'd have loved that.
You said it had been tight.
What do you mean when you say the word tight?
That's a slang word right there, right?
What that mean?
Oh saying tight and awesome is pretty much the same.
Mm-hm.
Do you have any brothers?
Sisters?
Adventure World?
What's that?
What's the biggest difference between  the- the-  the name changing?
Like do they change how it look?
Like the water- you said water?
What'd you say the first one was called?
What's that?
Like  what was their theme?
Like what would make people wanna go there, something called Wild World?
L- what was like- what's - some of your like, family traditions?
That's something that you'll carry on.
Like do you have any kids?
That you- that you would carry on with your family, that you and your family used to do all the time?
I feel you there.
It's important to come together, you know what I mean?
With your family.
That's important.
So you're labeled if you're a- a Muslim.
You're labeled if you're a Christian.
You're labeled like this, that's what you mean?
S- so the Christian don't like the Muslim.
The Muslim don't like the Jew, whatever.
Yeah yeah.
Speaking of belief, what do you believe in?
How- Oh, okay.
I feel you.
Oh, okay.
So you wanna think for yourself instead of being told what to think.
Can you give me an example of that?
Go ahead, go ahead.
I'm just messing with this.