And  you're from DC?
Born and raised?
Alright, what neighborhood?
Southeast?
Does it have a specific neighborhood?
Hillcrest?
Where's Hillcrest?
Mm.
I know where you're talking about now.
Have you lived anywhere else?
And where'd you go to school?
RD-SCHOOL-3 And so currently, what's your occupation?
The premier.
Are you all premier or elite?
No, elite is- Clubhou- is FBR.
So y'all are premier Richard England Club Whatever.
Um, no y'all are pretty- Y'all good- Y'all be- Y'all pretty good over there- Y'all pretty good- Y'all - Y'all making strides.
This last year has really been- Seriously, like I've been here almost three years.
This last year, I think y'all have- Leaps and bounds.
Like RD-WORK-4 is- y'all stepping up.
Stepping up and stepping out, okay.
Um, where was your father born?
DC?
Where about your mom?
What does your father do?
Mkay.
That's fine.
Oh.
What about your  mom?
Well,  then let's talk about your grandparents.
So,  that's all I'm gonna be writing.
That's it.
Um, so tell me a little bit about  your house,  like your family,  especially because you said your grandparents raised you, so tell me how was that dynamic.
Mm, so when y- when did your mom leave?
How old was your mom?
So you were like- elementary school?
But you had already really gotten close to your- Did you make that decision?
Or did your mom make that- Or did they make that decision?
For you to stay?
Mm-hm.
Because their- She was their child.
You see how that- that's that children- Mm-hm., but it didn't quite work.
Mm-hm.
What do you mean?
She was envious of you?
Mm.
So tell me about- Okay.
So tell me about your neighborhood, your house, like what you remember.
Like, I mean like,  physically.
Your block,  and like,  did you play with other kids in the neighborhood?
So your neighborhood was really quiet.
Was it r- Do you feel r- Did you feel really safe?
Now Woodland has a reputation.
So how was it going from prim and proper neighborhood, white picket fence almost to  um, we in the hood.
Like- did- wasn't-  Am I right?
Was Woodland t- the hood?
Right, so how as that transition?
Um, so when you went to- What elementary school did you go to?
So how did you- Okay, wait a minute.
So how did you get put out of the school?
See,  now I'm getting the real-  Mm-hm.
Cause before  you were like, yes, you know, I grew up this  prim and proper neighborhood.
Lakeda I know you get down.
Mm-hm.
You're like, no, no.
I couldn't.
It- It was a treat to go to Woodland Terrace.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
So how- Wait.
Where'd you- How did you end up w- Mc- at RD-SCHOOL-3?
Oh.
I don't know about RD-SCHOOL-1- Tell me- I don't know about RD-SCHOOL-2 I've not- Was it like, they just- Like  Kids were bad- Like, I don't- What do you mean?
Like it was unsafe?
Like gangs and stuff?
So tell me about like- and do you remember like, the gang activity?
I mean, not that you necessarily involved, but like, seeing it.
Like what?
Like give me an example.
But there was just- It was like fist fight.
There were no guns and stuff.
Wow.
Was it girls, boys, was it mix?
Were they different groups?
So- but I'm saying like- Okay.
So-  Do you see what I'm saying?
Okay, so I'll give you an example.
One girl was telling me about the gangs- It's the whole neighborhood was beefing, not- not- the girls of the neighborhood Which is very different from the ones I heard- And so those are very specific to the neighborhood and the school?
Because that's very di- Like,  I wonder- I'm'a look back at the list that she gave me- I can't even remember who I was talking to, but she listed some.
But they were very different.
Like the Y's- Y two-  Y two G gang or some- It was like a lot of different names and- Those are the ones you remember?
Were you ever like, wanting to be in the gang?
Or wanted to- You know, I'm gonna be in a gang?
No that's a- that's a legit question.
It's a- So like give me an example.
So did you- Okay.
So then, how long were you there?
For a year?
Two years?
Okay, so you were there for two years.
And then you went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Okay.
How was that experience?
Mm-hm.
Now was RD-SCHOOL-2- That's like- STEM  at that point, or math science was the main focus, right?
Or was it- Okay.
So what did you do?
So what did you want to do?
Like, at that point?
What-  Did- Is that just because you chose that one or is there something like, you specifically- What color are you?
You're gree- What's your second color?
What's your third color?
Fa- I would think  because you are- You- You are very detail- So I would think blue would be higher.
Mm.
But yellow I can se- I mean green and yellow I can see that too cause you're all about- Like, all the girls love to sit at your desk and help you and talk to Ms.
Lakeda all day.
But your comment is on- Your comment is right, so I can't be mad.
Um, what was your favorite subject in school?
Why?
What's your favorite book?
Okay.
I'm not- Give me an example.
I'm not mad at the hood books.
Mm-hm.
What's your favorite Zane book?
Why?
What happened?
I haven't read it, but  I've-  I've heard a lot about- about  Zane.
I'm actually s- just started Coldest Winter Ever.
I've never read it.
It is good?
But it's probably because you weren't doing those things.
Right?
It was- It was- You were able to live vicariously through the book.
But see that's exactly what- That's ex- That's ex- Amen.
Thank God she read the books.
Yes, Jesus.
Um, what college did you go to?
Oh, how did you-  Now I asked you.
I said, did you live anywhere else?
Northeast.
So- So-   I mean, well you kind of did live t- I mean, going to college- Right, so you did live there.
Um, tell me how was that experience, like leaving DC cause that's very different.
Like, you all up in Ohio.
You in middle America.
Sort of.
Not quite middle yet, but how was that?
And how did you- Wait.
How did you get to Ohio?
Like,  how- What- What made you go from RD-SCHOOL-4 to Ohi- Like there's so many schools like Howard, Georgetown, George Washington.
You could go to UVA, like- Mm.
Oh, like, little.
Okay.
Yeah, okay.
Cause I- You know, I'm thinking like, maybe it's two, three thousand.
You talking about like- Like five hundred.
For the whole- four years- So did you drive?
So what sorority are you in?
And what's Gamma Phi- I've never- Mm-hm.
I could see you- I could see that.
But did y'all- Okay.
So did y'all do like, um- Did y'all participate with like- Did y'all do step shows?
Did y'all do the stuff?
Mm-hm.
So did y'all do like, parties with them?
I can see-  What's your favorite?
Who your- What's your favorite group?
Really?
I would have not- Mm.
Why?
You know-  See, and that's why I would have put you with Qs or Kappas.
But that's the perception!
And you know- And that's so funny becau- Like, no Lakeda.
Seriously, but at the same time, knowing you- You're not- I don't know, but I would have most definitely been like, yeah, she like them Qs and them Kappas.
I'm a Alpha or Iota- Iotas.
I love the Iotas.
People don't give them credit.
But I-  I think they're very sophisticated.
Mm, so y'all what nineteen seventy-ish?
Nineteen eighty-ish?
Y'all young- Oh, younger.
I'm thinking- Mm.
Mm-mm.
So I'm adding twenty years.
So- Okay, so y'all are twenty years older than them.
Mm.
Who were they?
Deltas, AKAs?
Mm-hm.
Because the AKs, then the Deltas broke off.
That's why they're call- Deltas change, right?
Um,  so how was Greek life?
Do you fe- Like, do you feel like you got the Greek experience?
Even then with the not being in the Divine Nine?
You had a membership intake process.
Thank you.
But that was the secondary was the social?
So what organization did y'all like, work with the most?
But I mean like, I'm talking about youth.
Like, what youth group did y'all work with th-?
Oh so y'all would do m- So it wasn't like you were part of the Boys and Girls Club?
Gotcha.
Gotcha.
So you're more so giving them another option to st- different things.
But it wasn't a big city right?
With the cornfields and all that.
That was funny to me.
So,  do you have any siblings?
Wait, first before we go back to the siblings,  what did you major in in college?
Oh cause you did Broadcast.
That makes sense.
Cause that's what you do.
Right now.
Mm-hm.
But do you feel like that kind of gave you a idea?
Like,  how do you feel like that's connected?
Cause I feel like everything we do is connected.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So did you- Okay.
So you have one- You have a brother.
Mm-hm.
And how-  Y'all have a age  gap.
Mm-hm.
How was that?
So, even now, are you and your mom more like sisters?
Are y'all- Like is it,  mother daughter or is it more like,  That's my sister.
I mean even though you might not call her your sister, but  does it feel more like that?
Or does it feel like, no, that's my mama.
Do you think she feels that way too?
Or she feels like, no, that's my daughter.
Don't get it twisted.
Mother.
So your mom is also named RD-NAME-3.
Ah.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Gotcha.
Okay.
I think that's why you and RD-NAME-3 get along cause she's your mom's age.
A litt- I don't- Old- Younger.
So she's a little older than your mom.
And I think that's exactly- But that's why you- Is why because you- That's what you've grown up with.
And I think it's that big sister- Cause I think that's why- It's funny watching you and RD-NAME-3.
It's very much like the big sister, but like not the real big sister cause like, I think your mom is like the real big sister.
But RD-NAME-3 like your little big sister.
Mm-hm.
And then RD-NAME-2 is like the mama.
Yeah, she-  she most definitely is.
She's always- She said it,  I had to be the principal today.
Lord, these children.
And-  But she's the club principal.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um,  so you have one older brother, and then y- I mean one younger brother.
That's what I meant.
Do you have any other big family in DC besides your grandparents?
So your mama- So your grandparents had three kids.
Two boys and a girl.
Was your mom the youngest or oldest?
Spoiled.
Oh.
That's why- Now I see that it makes sense.
And that's when she was y- How big- How big is the gap from your mom to your-  your uncle?
Your- the middle child?
Oh, and then five years.
So see, yes.
You messed that all up because now you were the new baby and you know you- So do y'all still do like-  Do y'all do big family gatherings?
Do y'all do Sunday dinner?
Do you all do something big for uh- Oh.
Well yeah, no.
I wasn't gonna talk about them cause I'm not a big football person.
But did y'all do something big for them?
For that- Y'all- Are y'all a house divided, or everybody's like Oh, okay.
Mm.
Alright.
Great.
Um,  no, I was finna say the uh, Pacquiao Mayweather fight.
Did y'all do something big?
Cause that was the most recent big, big fight.
No I didn't know that.
Where were you?
Was that that time?
How was that?
Cause you haven't told me about it so this is a- as good a time as any to talk about it.
Tell me.
It was what?
A week long?
Not five- It was like f- Were you ratchet?
Borderline ratchet?
I mean, it's okay, RD-NAME-3.
You can be borderline ratchet.
That is like, not detailed at all.
That is very much like no details.
Okay, like what did y'all do?
What did y'all eat?
Where'd y'all go?
Like, what did- The non touristy part?
How was that?
But how was that?
Because- And I'm gonna- And the reason- I'm asking you this for a reason, but I want to know specifically how was it because you got to be a tourist, but then this guy's taking you into his house in- with- mean- his family, his neighborhood.
How did that feel- And what do you feel- Like what did you get from that experience?
So your stuff was fresh.
Like from the tree.
Right.
So they picked it right where you were s- So- I didn't even want say it like that.
I wouldn't want to judge you.
I'm'a do a side note.
So when Rhonice and Veronica  went in the neighborhood to find her phone, that was problematic for me.
No, no.
But did you talk to them?
Because see, that's the pot calling the kettle.
But see I'm not gonna put you- I'm not gonna put you on blast on that.
But did you  talk to them and tell them that that's not a good idea?
In your loving, sisterly way?
Because that's not- That's not a good idea.
When they came over , we were like, what?
Yes, but she's like, well I got my phone back.
Um,  yeah, but you could have got jacked up.
Really?
I thought she was the more sensical one.
So how do you think she gonna do in college?
Is it gonna humble her or is it gonna like, just really take her to another level of off the chainness?
Mm-hm.
But sometimes freedom is- is- Well sometimes- That's what I'm saying.
Sometimes when you get freedom though,  it- it contro- Probably cause you just like, you know what?
Alright, now it's no fun.
The fun is being able to hide it, and think you getting away with something.
Now that you can do it, it's like, eh.
Do you see what I'm saying?
Oh no.
See for me like, when I was able to do something, I was like, eh.
I don't know.
But I was also a very letter to the law kind of girl.
Did you tell her that you went to the cornfields and you was good?
Okay.
Oh, are- the people from the school, they already in a group chat.
Oh because they went up this- Mm-hm.
Right, like, somebody from Iowa.
But I asked you the question about- I know we got off on RD-NAME-2 then, but that was a little crazy.
I thought that was just ridiculous.
Um, but I asked you about that because I think about-  like you said, people come to DC,  and you show 'em the monuments.
And there- There is no life outside of like that six block radius.
And so what do you feel- How do you feel  as a local, do you take advantage of the touristy stuff, and then do you try to give your touristy  people- Do you feel like you try to give them a local experience, and what would the local experience be?
Or the native experience?
So,  do you feel like-  do you feel like you too loc- Like, why haven't you done the monuments?
And not to say- I mean, cause some- Like there are things in my hometown that I haven't done.
It doesn't interest you.
Have you been to MFA?
Okay let me give you a date- dating tip.
One of the most romantic and beautiful things- And I kid you not, absolutely beautiful.
Because before I-  like,  was doing a re- I wanted to be a tour guide.
One of the most beautiful  and romantic things  is  moonlight- Doing a walking around the monuments at-  at- moon light.
But then doing like, and right on the tidal basin, just sitting out there and just looking at the stars- It is absolutely- I mean, when I tell you RD-NAME-3- No!
And I'm serious like, MLK you can't do at night because it has a different feel.
Like you feel very like,  reverence or you want to like, reflect and pray because it's just the way it's set up, it makes you just think like, get my life right and look- look at all he sacrificed, so that's a little different.
And maybe not like, the Korean or the Vietnam cause they like- That's war.
But if you go to like, the Washington or even the Lincoln- The way it's lit up.
And just watch the reflecting pool.
Um, FDR is actually my favorite.
And the waterfall's there.
Like, RD-NAME-3, I'm telling you.
I'm telling you!
Like, Date night  went just like to a ten, and just do like a little picnic.
Um,  I don't know about wine cause I don't know if you can have like, open containers, but  um- But do like wine and cheese in your little picnic basket.
Girl I'm tell- I'm trying to tell you.
Step your game up.
You just- the touristy stuff.
And if you didn't live here, you would be- But you know what, we need to take ad- we ne- Did you ride a camel?
I love it.
I love it!
When did you go to Egypt?
Oh yeah, you could see the little bougie-  I'm not mad.
I'm not- But you know- Because I- My graduation gift from my parents- My dad's from Ghana.
So, that's where I went.
I was in Ghana for two w- Like, so I understand that.
I'm not mad.
Mm-hm.
And they was just like, let's write a check.
So do you feel like your grandparents were rich?
Boy, you became like, the nine eight- the- the nine hundred number?
What- it just- it's so crazy.
So do you feel like you are still like, rich?
Do you feel like you- Mm.
She spoiled in you different ways- He spoiled you because he had the financial means.
She- Right, but I'm saying but hers- She does not necessarily have the means to back it up to do the- the financial part.
Are you more independent or you feel like you're still financially dependent on- So you still living at your childhood house?
You still live in your- RD-NAME-3, you are not financially independent, boo.
But that's okay.
Look, let me find somebody.
Mm-hm.
It's expensive.
Cause your money come in, and then it go out and you be like, Wait!
Mm, I need the phone number you was calling.
Like two phone numbers?
For what?
Oh okay.
Cause just in case those in DC need to call you locally, they could  ring you up.
And if your Ohio friends-  So you need to have your two phones.
I underst- You know what I'm not gonna be mad at that.
I understand cause at- in one point in college, I did too.
Because I was not sure if I wanted to switch to T Mobile.
So I had my T Mobile number's like four four four something.
And then I had my eight three four number  cause I was like, well, maybe I don't want to go from A T and T.
It was a whole big thing, so I understand that sys- .
Why?
Mm.
Mm.
It's not gonna be anyway.
I'm giving you a hard time, but I'm spoiled too.
So I also had to learn that lesson.
And it's a hard lesson!
And- um,  my mom always wanted a girl, and then my brother- We're seven years apart.
And- I'm the young- Uh-huh, I'm the baby.
And  um, so, when we went to church- Had all the church ladies were like, you know-  They-  Mimi, that's what they called me.
Oh Mimi got to come sit with us, and so I had all the fluffy dresses, and I had really long pony tails, so this one lady- She was the church lady, she did my hair.
Like, and so I was really really spoiled, and my brother didn't have all this cause my mom was just starting out with him.
And she had just moved  by herself, so I underst- It was very hard for me to get older and realize, look, everything is not gonna be your way.
And we weren't rich by any means, but my mom made a lot of sacrifices so I could go to Africa and- Mm-hm.
That's what my mom would do!
So then I had to start eating in the office.
Like I couldn't even eat in the cafeteria.
You wished you was- They was- They was watching you.
So, okay.
One thing that you keep talking about I want to go back to- Cause I was gonna ask later but this is a good- And then we got off on this- all this other stuff about being in school, so- You know I'm scatterbrained RD-NAME-3.
You got to- You know I got to come back.
Go go.
Girl, are you- You've talked about like, two or three different times.
Tell me, first of all, how did you get introduced to go go?
How do you start a go go band?
Like just any kind of like- You just get some people to sing, play the congos.
What's your favorite band?
TCB.
Why?
Have you ever seen them perform?
So tell me about the first time you went to-  the first time you went to the go go.
So when you talk about- when you- where were you for your first g- where- where were you  that was so hot, packed.
I mean, and that's generally- Cause I've been Where is that?
Mm-hm.
Oh, I go to the little bank over there.
Um, that's the only reason I know where that is is because I go to the Credit Un-  - I've heard of  Mad Chef.
Do you still go to go gos now?
When was your last be ratchet moment?
Why is that fun- No that's a- like a legit question.
So who are you- Who is in your circle in- Like, I know you said you met your best friend in-  What was it?
Elementary or middle school?
And so who do you hang out with?
Are you still close- Like your  school friends?
And how'd you- But how'd y'all meet?
Was it- It wasn't college.
It was- This was all before you went to college.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-2?
Oh.
And how long have y'all been like, the Fab Five?
For three years.
Now who's the one that died?
That's the one in the- in the car accident.
Can you tell me about that?
Like,  I know you showed me the vid- And I- If it's too  traumatic then you don't have to.
But I just remember-  I remember us talking like bits and pieces about it.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Hm.
Something was gonna happen .
It was all these things.
And it doesn't help that you have it on your phone.
Oh okay.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Cause it was horrific.
But you know what, RD-NAME-3, I think- I commend you because, you know  mental health is so important.
And it's a community- Especially black people We don't- We don't take enough care in that.
It's very stigmatized, and I commend you.
Like, if you realize you have an issue- like look, I just need to get some things off my chest.
And that- that doesn't mean you crazy, or, you gonna go out and shoot up fifteen peo- You just having some issues.
And she was young.
You guys are young.
Mm-hm.
But it wasn't her fault.
Gives you pause.
Yeah.
I'm good.
So you'd rather do public transportation?
No, because there's certain associations.
Right?
That's I- I think th- th- that's recreational.
Right?
So in your mind, that's something completely different.
But in a car-  But you don't mind flying?
Mm-hm.
But because it's- j- th- th- And riding the bus is very different cause that's not like,  the kind of car that she was- She was in a small personal car.
And so it's very different.
So it's not- It's not weird  because the car club is very recreational.
That's- They- It's an activity.
Riding the bus is- You're doing something- get some- But riding in the car, that conjures up all the memories.
And all the sadness that comes with that.
And so, it's okay.
And you may not want to do that for quite some time.
And  you know.
No.
But at the same time, guess what?
You getting where you got to go, ain't you?
And that's all you can do.
And that's all you can do.
Okay.
So let's  stop being sad, and we gonna-  But thank you for sharing.
Um,