Hey what's going on?
I'm here with  RD-NAME-2.
This is RD-NAME-2 by the way.
Um, RD-NAME-2, if you could  say hello.
Okay,  mic seems to be picking you up well.
Um, we'll go  and, um, continue with this interview.
Um,  what is your  name?
Okay,  and, um,  what sex are you?
Okay, what's your ethnicity?
Okay,  um,  what year were you born?
Okay,  um, your hometown?
Okay,  your neighborhood?
Okay, how long you been in  the Atlanta area?
Okay, so basically you a ATLien.
Alright,  um,  where were your parent's birthplace?
Okay.
And how do you know  the interviewer?
Oh cool.
Mm-hm.
Cool, cool, cool.
Okay,  um,  let's see.
So I know you said that your friend sometime produce for you or whatnot.
So  you're a artist?
What type of music do you make?
Mm.
When did you know you had a passion for making music?
What's a song from back in the day that you was really  rocking with?
Okay.
I haven't heard that song before, but  I guess it's  probably cool if it came from Eightball and MJG.
I like some of they work.
Is it a-  is there a hook or  a line from that song you wanna  sing for us?
Okay,  well, I'll YouTube it and check it out  my leisure time.
Um, let's see  So,  you've been here twenty-three years in Atlanta,  but before that,  you was in, um,  what, Florida?
Mm.
Was it, um,  tough  making that adjustment to a different area?
Okay.
But twenty-three years in Atlanta, it must be some good things about it.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Mm.
I know you mentioned your son.
How many kids do you have?
Oh, that's beautiful.
What's- how's your relationship with, um, I guess your immediate family?
Ah, that's great.
That's great.
Um,  could you tell me a little bit about  your upbringing as far as  school  wise.
Like how was coming up in school?
Wow.
That's, um, very, very,  impressive.
Uh,  so  what are y-  what type of things are you learning in your classes  right about now?
Okay, well, um,  I know I asked you a- if it was a couple of topics  you care  to  touch on or not touch on.
I never really mentioned  politics.
How do you feel about our new president Donald Trump?
Ho- what are your thoughts about him?
Okay,  um, what's your opinion of him?
Mm.
Definitely.
But, um,  God bless America.
Now, um,  what about, um,  I-  I know  where your stance is on politics.
What about religion?
Oh wow.
Oh wow, okay.
Learning now.
That's cool.
Um,    There's a powerful energy in this-  in the air right about now.
Okay,  I got a question.
Another one.
Okay, do you ever at any point in time feel  music wise  y-  you would be at a much,  um,  more mainstream success appeal if  you had a different type of character  than the one  you have now?
Or if that is,  uh, something that's actually a roadblock for you,  your character  is keeping you from having mainstream  success in your music?
Okay.
It's pretty transparent.
Makes sense to me.
Music wise right now, who you like?
Love Missy.
You like the Migos?
I like them a lot.
Definitely, I like the Migos too.
Hm, okay that's different.
Okay.
Good music, you like good music.
Deitrick Haddon,  shit I know that name.
I heard of Lecrae.
Definitely.
Oh yeah, I- I- I l- I love you s-  too.
For real.
For real.
Love yourself too.
Outside of music let's see,  um,  slang.
What's some of the  slang  I guess you was-  use right now?
Or, just what's some of the most common words you find yourself saying?
I definitely knew you was gonna say definitely.
Yeah.
It's definitely-  Saying what?
W- What?
Police?
Please.
Please.
I love that one.
Um, it's awesome.
Okay.
We only twelve minutes in.
And I got plenty more questions to ask you.
Okay.
Um,  When's the last time you been in a fight?
Definitely a physical fight.
You don't have to say who.
But it just- when's the last time?
I can remember the last time I had a fight.
It was definitely in grade school.
It was that long.
Okay.
Yeah, you should be able to remember that quicker than m- I can remember the  middle school joint.
Oh wow, really?
So you're a pastor  and a boxer,  boxer.
Okay,  I've been wanting to take up some type of new physical  activity.
Boxing, I s-  I was thinking that's cool.
But then, you know, they got something called UFC.
You might come across a- yeah, wrestling and kicking and stuff like that.
It's some real wrestling techniques out there.
That helps big time.
That's- definitely hurts.
You never, um,  tried to get into acting?
You still act?
That's pretty turnt.
That's a nice plug too.
RD-WORK-4  Let's see,  what else is another hustle  as far as,  you know,  that you did  just in your lifetime period,  getting some bread?
Dancing  like stripping?
Stripping dances?
Pole dance classes.
Chair dancing.
Choreography.
What?
Oh okay.
Is that the best money?
It's not the best money.
I'm thinking some of these strippers out here, really be getting doctor money out here.
True,  true that, true that, true.
It's a lot of fast living right there.
Oh, reputations is  very, um, important.
Especially, um,  more  you live.
Sheesh.
Speaking of reputations, man, why they try to do my man Bill Cosby like that, man?
Yeah,  the accusations.
I don't know.
I can't- I can't say if it's true or if it's not true, but I wouldn't be, you know,  attacking him like  it is true.
Oh my gosh.
Dang.
True.
Nah, nah.
He didn't do it to you.
You know that for a fact.
We definitely know God knows though.
Oh, damn.
I fee- I per- I- I don't know, maybe I'm a conspiracy theorist.
I  personally think the powers that be could have enough power  to pull that off and have the media,  you know, convince us, whatever.
Why they still talk about that?
It's weird.
But it's a lot of stuff about that joint that's-  that's just weird though.
But I mean, I guess  that's kind of Hollywood too,  at the same thing.
Nah, nah.
We could say Illuminati, but I mean, I don't know what the Illuminati is, so that's why I don't even wanna say Illuminati like that.
Cause it could be, know- you know, one percenters, or the  whoever else.
Nah, nah.
I think it's like some, uh,  what's the word?
Nah, nah, not no salt in the game.
I was- I was tryna say like on some vision type stuff.
Illusion,  definitely.
Perfect word I was looking- I think it's definitely something to be enjoyed  as much as possible, though.
Ah.
Ay, but, um,  what's real is I guess the position you play  in w-  whatever it is, you know, play.
You Ms.
RD-NAME-2 though, man.
You Ms.
Boss.
You stay in your lane.
Boss of you.
That's really the best thing you could be.
Cause this world crazy.
Man, that's really what is happening  online.
I think Blac Chyna might end up being president.
A lot of people said they was moving to another country with Trump.
Oh.
Best believe they not- Nah you s- you try to be funny and dip out right now.
They ain't- they probably ain't gonna let your ass back,  not for some years.
Nah, definitely.
Twenty minutes in.
Nah, not really.
I mean,  I had a couple of  interview questions  that I misplaced, but I can  kind of  grab a few out my head randomly.
But, you know, it's us talking like we usually do.
Do we usually talk this much?
I feel like we talk way more than twenty minutes.
Definitely.
Uh, what kind of, um,  You seen them batteries I left in your light right?
You haven't used it?
Man, you know what's crazy?
If you kept  actually  trying to edit, you probably would be a lot  better at editing.
You know who has  been getting kind of good at editing?
Your boy.
Chill G.
Let's do it.
I really wanna crank it on my computer, but it's not working  like it's supposed to.
That's not.
I've been cashing that out  man.
with it.
I don't know.
Um,  depending on your definition of realistic.
No, I'm saying I can-  I can hook it up from-  man, fuck that shit, yeah we go anywhere.
I'm that nigga.
I get it.
Don't you got footage already?
I know I got footage with- um,  with us from the, um, club and shit like that  and Glenwood Day.
I know.
I got a lot that type of footage I need to drop.
Just footage I got, period.
That was just one instance  that we was on a camera together.
We need some more.
But  I'm  editing this, uh, video for RD-NAME-3  Got a new video-  I mean a new song that's finna dropped on iTunes.
RD-NAME-3 Oh, what's the name of it?
That was funny.
Ah man,  last, um, person I was, um,  interviewing with  mentioned something about Freaknik.
Yeah.
Ah, I was so young, man, but I was just so happy.
I'm like, oh man, I got a Freaknik memory  of my own and stuff like that.
Like  not too many people can say that.
But, um, what you remember about Freaknik?
Oh my gosh.
Why wasn't I there for that time?
Memorial Drive was too?
Don't tell me they was in the  with it.
All of them.
I missed that.
Ain't nobody even about that life to crank that type of stuff up no more.
Oh yeah yeah.
The city kind of cracked down.
Sh-  Fake-lanta.
Oh man, they want us to be turnt but not too turnt.
Oh my goodness.
Nah, n- Uh, nah, nah it's a new world and- but,  you know,  it's-  it's cool to not be PC about everything all the time and stuff.
PC as in, uh, politically correct.
That's cool too.
Nah it's some- it's rappers coming out in the game now  officially, like that's where we at.
It's really a great stride.
Honestly that's a huge step.
Cause that was like never before tooken place  in hip hop to our knowledge I guess.
Nah, you funny.
Nah, I know  Play wasn't about that life at all.
Play was- um, Play was Blade Brown right, in Class Act.
Yeah, Play ain't going for that.
Yes, please.
Oh man.
Get the-  outta here.
This- nah.
Ay, I mean, ay, I'm happy for them.
But hey now,  no way.
This gotta be a spoof.
When did this happen?
It look like it is, and they look like they serious.
How long ago was this though?
See this joint don't even exist no more, what?
This says two thousand fifteen.
Nah.
That's not saying any-  Oh man.
that, um, yo  they got my boy.
Maybe it's just a  weird coincidence.
They two grown ass niggas name Kid and  Play.
Martin Lawrence said that?
Total shock.
Oh my  Oh, snap.
I wanna see the video  of Kid responding to this rumor and saying it's not true.
See that's what somebody said in the comments.
Play said but at least they found it funny.
I am befuddled.
I don't even know what befuddled is, but that's what I am now  that I've heard this.
Befuddled.
I'm about to start  that word.
No, that's not a reliable resource to get factual news y'all.
See, I told you.
I said it wasn't CNN.
Wasn't even BNN.
It's some- I don't know, man.
I need therapy.
Oh yeah, this interview turned extra left.
Okay, let's see, we got,  oh, about ten more-  ten more minutes or so.
Let's see,   you get along with your coworkers?
Wow.
Independent contractor.
Doing what?
What?
Yeah.
Man, that i- that is so  boss.
Um.
How do you say- so, um,  are you organized?
To be able to like, um,  multitask and do all these different things.
Okay.
That's woah.
That's what's up.
Feel like females just got a  better  advantage when it come to  organizing and multitasking.
I have no idea.
Just seem like y'all get it a lot easier.
Oh, yeah?
What's your hustle?
What?
Dang.
What about  your grind and what you get a- out of it.
It's just what it is, right?
So you don't think it's situations where you like-  but just like, is the juice worth the squeeze or something?
Mm.
Why you gotta stay down?
Why you can't stay up?
Ooh.
Hoo hoo hoo hoo.
That's real right there.
Nah, I d- I dig that.
I dig that.
Let's see,  you got any, um,  favorite sports teams?
You like sports at all?
Ev- what if they would have-  um,  dang.
Yeah.
You look like a person that don't like the Falcons for whatever reason.
I don't know,  but  you definitely giving me that-  that look.
I think it's cause you almost look like you could be from New Orleans or something.
Okay,  and they definitely don't like  the Falcons.
Oh,  definitely.
Definitely cause of grandfather.
Yeah, only but see how they lost their game.
It's horrible.
Ah man, I'm used to it too.
That's why I never really look for it.
I'm definitely am.
So I'm happy when they win.
Alabama University win those  football games.
Oh the Gators used to definitely win a couple of them dang things.
Dolphins was turnt  at one time too.
They-  they been hurting lately.
What's the, um, next place you want to travel to?
Ooh.
Okay,  I can come?
Yes.
I wanna come to Dubai.
Oh, sh- I did not know that.
That's definitely  not illegal in Dubai.
Do I-  do I need to fact check you again on Google?
Nah, I'm not even gonna do it.
I'm just gonna take your w- I'm'a take you- take your word for it.
Love Dubai, just the-  the thought of it.
Mm.
It could maybe.
Nah man, Dubai too player, man.
Who that, Cortana?
Okay, British gay couple detained in Dubai airport  while staff laughed about their-  oh snap,  they tripping.
Thoughts on visiting in the UAE  as a gay man.
Out and out.
Oh,  LGBT-  T rights in the United A-  living dangerously being gay  Indian in Dubai.
Okay.
Sheesh.
Oh okay it's more.
Homosexuality in the UA-  detained-  from the consequences of being openly gay in this r- they-  in this region.
Oh, they not playing.
Oh, they not playing.
Okay.
But ay man,  thank goodness we live in such a great  country  called  America.
Definitely where,  you know, you can be who you want to.
Mm.
It's a couple of things.
Nah, that we don't got like  giant nuclear bombs dropping on top of our heads and stuff like that.
What about that?
No-  no they didn't.
You talking about the, um, World Trade Center?
Mm-hm.
Nah, but I mean that- that's kind of like one time  in America.
That happen like everyday  in other countries.
But yeah, I r- I rock with that.
Somebody else wrote that statement, it's true.
I really want to go back to Africa sometime soon.
Nah.
Go back to Africa.
Have you been?
Nah.
I haven't, but I can only imagine.
beautiful.
Ah, I always wanted a giraffe too.
A baby giraffe, or  a real tall- Oh.
Yeah.
I was thinking about getting a baby panther at one time.
Oh.
It's people doing that too.
What kind of horse?
Bla-  And it's just chilling, like what, like a horse in the back of this house or something?
Oh my.
That's funny.
Horses cool man.
Yeah, they be taking giant shits.
Oh no.
No.
Oh yeah how many dogs have you had in your, um, lifetime?
Yeah.
Caino.
That's cool though.
I had, um, zero dogs in my lifetime.
Yeah, I think red is a very nice color.
Let's see, I think we at oh, forty  minutes.
What do you know, the time just fly.
So much fun.
Oh.
Dang.
Now there was a actual  piece of the recording that I want to note with my phone down.
Okay.
Nah, I mean, it's-  it's recording right there, but, um, I was gonna get you to read this little story passage.
Oh, it's a  Apple iPhone.
Brought to you by  Apple.
Okay.
Um,  I plan on,  you know,  drawing this  recording to a conclusion.
RD-NAME-3, thank you for your time.
It's possible  I'll get you to,  you know,  read over that  story  in another take.
Okay.