So,  let's talk a little bit about,  Valdosta.
You've always lived in Valdo- Well, until you moved away.
Do you remember your childhood home?
So I didn't know- I didn't know you before- I didn't know where you live- I've never been to that house.
So describe- first of all describe the house to me.
When did you live there?
H- how do you- how does one play Ninja Turtles?
I'm sorry- Mm, okay.
So there- Okay that makes sense.
So your sister didn't play?
Okay.
Wasn't Which one were you- who were you?
Oh yes.
That's the best Ninja Turtle ever.
Hm.
So let's back up, cause clearly I have  put the cart before the horse.
So let's talk about your family, cause you have a lot of siblings.
So tell me about your siblings.
You don't have to necessarily tell me their names, cause they'll be redacted anyway.
Um,  but you can, cause we're gonna beep them out.
Um, cause it's probably easier to talk about them using their names.
But, um,  tell- tell me about your siblings.
And tell me about your  being in a big family.
Mm.
Um,  I- I elect to disconnect from you.
So do you have- Okay, so let's talk about family a little bit, Then we're gonna  kind of, transition to something else you just said.
Do you have family traditions?
Like ones that you still do n- that you still hold now?
And ones that you had in the past that maybe you don't  do anymore?
So you moved away from Valdosta,  but before- let's go back- let's go- cause I don't wanna- I don't wanna talk about moving away first.
So let's talk about  school.
Um, so  we're gonna talk about middle school, cause I think that's important.
Selfishly but let's talk about elementary school first.
Do you remember elementary school?
Um.
Mostly?
Okay.
Did you- Which elementary school did you go to?
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
Did you have a favorite teacher, or a favorite subject?
Did you like elementary school?
Mm.
Like what?
So, you were still the RD-SCHOOL-3 days.
When we transitioned- before we transitioned there was no- before RD-SCHOOL-3 did the change thing.
Alright.
So did you like RD-SCHOOL-3?
Fifth.
Cause then we got to go to Yes.
We were the last group to do the fifth grade, si- Mm, yeah.
Hm.
It's so interesting, as close as we are,  we never  used each other's nicksnames.
Like I've never called you RD-NAME-2,  you never call me RD-NAME-2.
Like, we never- that's the one thing  interestingly  that we never crossed into that space.
Like Olivia calls you RD-NAME-2, um,  but we never- that's- That's so interesting to me.
Right.
Nah, I get it.
Ta- totally.
I  totally get it.
Um, so let's talk about middle school, cause I think  that was a different  tra- transition right?
Because we-  So the way RD-SCHOOL-3's set up, like, the schools came together, well, we still-  still kind of separate, so tell-  instead of me talking about it, you talk about it.
And then RD-SCHOOL-4 also was new- Mm.
Hm.
So much of that.
Is this- is this backwards talk, or is this like straight talk.
Uh,  Mm-hm.
Um.
I really- I don't know.
Um.
Can't really-  I'm not sure what happened there.
Mm-mm.
Coach- Hy- yeah.
Coach RD-NAME-2.
No pun intended.
That was very passive aggressive actually.
Mm, little bit.
Oh, okay.
Oh, hm.
Yeah.
I think, um,  when I think of for me, when I think of middle school and I think of-  Yeah, the whole,  um, seventh grade was weird.
Um, but eighth grade,  I think paw prints, was like our thing,  um, we were reading- Me too.
Exactly.
Pioneer- Um,  and doing all of those things.
So let's talk about high school a little bit, cause I think-  Talk about how high school- The importance of high school- First of all in our town,  um, and then kind of your own high school experience.
Orange shirt.
Yep,  pretty good.
It was- It was pretty  darn good actually.
Um,  do you think that-  Going back where you talked about like, the one white girl and- and how you took her spot,  um,  do you think there are like, issues of-  Like it is the deep South- Do you think there are like racial issues?
Did you see that?
Even beyond middle school, like in high school?
Like,  so tell me a little bit about it.
Mm-hm.
So,  then you went to college, um,  and then from college you kind of, moved into  Corporate America.
So kind of talk a little bit about-  about college and kind of how  that was a very  different experience from  Valdosta.
And like leaving Valdosta.
And So- Note, college is- is over.
Not redoing it.
Mm.
Hm.
Have a seven year old.
Mm.
So,  we've been talking for a while, so I'm gonna  fast forward kind of through Corporate America, but I wanna ask you this question kind of in the lens.
So as you moved from place to place, kind of going  with your job and opportunities,  how do you- How have your experience in different cities compared to life in Valdosta?
Literally?
Figuratively?
That's what I'm thinking.
Me too.