Talking about DC.
What part of DC you from?
Benning Road, Southeast?
Tell me about Benning Road and Southeast.
You call it home.
What's home about it?
What's so special about your neighborhood?
What makes your neighborhood special and tight?
You say all- you all people?
I mean, tell me about your neighborhood like what- what would make me wanna go- like if I never been around your neighborhood, tell me what would make me wanna go around your neighborhood in DC.
First off how old are you?
Twenty-four, okay.
So what would make- what's so special about it though?
Like, you know what I'm saying, like,  are you excited when you talk about your neighborhood or are you just like, uh, it's alright,  So you lived in one spot all your life?
One spot, so you live in a house, townhouse?
It was a house?
So you don't- do you still live in this house?
Oh you live in a house, okay, okay.
So you still stay in a house on Minnesota Avenue.
On Benning Road.
Oh I'm sorry.
Oh okay, okay, Benning Road.
Alright.
Now tell me about like-  like what is it that- You know what I'm saying, you're twenty-four years old, so you still in your prime, so you still- Tell me some words.
Tell me about words that,  you know, you may have used when you was sixteen, seventeen as opposed to now.
And y- And you said Mo, what is- what does that mean?
Hm.
What he said s- used the words, I got a lot of it?
Right.
So like where is like, on fleek and all that?
You don't use that?
Right.
Yeah, okay.
So are you like-  what are you, in college?
What do you do?
Oh you do landscaping?
You own your own business?
What's the name of the business?
Oh.
Cool.
What got you into that?
Oh,  that's awesome.
Like what do you- have you started getting contracts like for-  for- or are you just starting or what?
More residential, oh.
What do you mean residential?
Like houses and stuff, or?
So basically you need  income.
Don't they got like  business loans and stuff like that that can get you those equipments and stuff, or?
Or you gonna wait til you get it on y- get it yourself?
Mm-hm.
Do a little bit of everything.
You have any brothers, sisters?
You have an identical twin brother.
Man.
That look just like you.
Ah okay.
How's- I mean, how's that relationship between you and him?
So bas- both of- both of y'all can see something at the same time and already know- feel the same way about it, is that what you're saying, or?
Oh wow.
Give me an example.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
So I guess- what does he do for a living?
Yeah.
Mkay.
What's the di- well like, what's the differences between y'all two?
Ah okay.
Well, tell me about your parents.
Mm, she did hair?
Mkay, how was that relationship?
Sorry to hear that she passed.
Sorry about that.
Just being a mom.
But it is- Go ahead.
Right right, g- Got you, got you, got you, got you, got you  Mkay, what is it- let me tell- I- what are some of the traditions that like- that you learned, you know what I'm saying, with your mom that you carried over  like into your-  you know what I'm saying, to your life.
Like are you married or anything?
Mm-hm.
Well, that's-  So who- so  it- so it's just you and your brother still in the house?
Oh you have a sister, you didn't say you had a sister.
And what's her name?
How d- I mean, how- is she- older sister, how-  how much older?
Like- Four years.
Ah, okay.
Like cause you brought up your father, like have you  like ever wanted to meet him?
Cause I went through the same thing and I recently- um,  and I recently met my-  I mean, I haven't like met him face to face but I talked to him.
And I- you know what I'm saying, like my- you know, I always wanted- like me, I always wanted to  meet him or at least talk to him or something, just find out the similarities, see if he you know, got my s- you know what I'm saying, he- his swag, how he go about things, see if I got some similarities there and, you know what I mean, so.
So like do you ever wonder about that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah it is tough growing up  without no- you know what I'm saying, without that.
I feel you there.
Mkay.
So,    let me see.
What about like your- like, your family?
Like do you have like a lot of family that lives here in DC, or?
Down south?
Mkay, what makes like- um,  let me aks you this.
What feel like- Like when I was aksing you about the traditions you was talking about- you said,  that she said always keep family first.
Are there any other things like food wise, or any other things like a-  like event wise that you- that she used to do that you're gonna carry o- that you've carried over or that you gonna carry over with your family?
Like- like for me it was like,  every Sunday we all used to go  to my grandmother's house.
You know what I mean, so that was an ev- you know, everybody no matter what  happened during that week, when you get there  it was all love and it was whatever, you know what I'm saying, so.
she ever- you know what I'm saying, like is there was anything that she used to do like that wise or that y'all used to do together like once a week, or- or once a month or once a year or whatever the case may be that was exciting?
You said- you just used a word just now and I caught it, you said you lunched.
What do you mean by that?
Oh now you're lunching?
No I'm just saying, I'm talking about- Cause I aksed you about slangs and I didn't never heard- you- you s- you didn't say anything about that word so then you just used that word.
You're lunching.
Got you.
Got you, got you, got you.
And what'd you say about your mom?
W- what'd you say else?
That she- oh you said the cooking, right?
What- what's the secret in the macaroni and cheese?
You gotta kill me, damn.
Well I don't wanna know then if you got to do all-  I got you champ, I got you champ.
What about like, um-