Are you- um, are you a movie person?
What's your top five?
What's the fifth one?
Cause you said,  the g- you said Godfather.
Right, right, all the Godfather, Godfather the whole series.
Oh, Belly yeah.
And Belly?
Ah okay.
What's the most inspirational movie that you've seen?
No just period, like- like a movie that's made you like,  think, you know, like- like wow that was a powerful movie or whatever.
You said Remember the Titans, oh man.
Oh you talking about- oh that is a good movie though.
Yeah, with, um, Denzel?
Yeah okay I ain't know what you was talking about but okay yeah, that's a good movie, okay that's a good inspirational movie, that's a good one.
Yeah that's a good one.
Do you like Netflix it a lot or you like go out a lot to the movies and watch 'em?
Like do you actually go to like- When is the last time you went- Like, what type of movie would actually have you going to the movies and seeing it instead of waiting for it to come out on Netflix or DVD or something like that?
Ah okay, okay.
Mkay.
Are you a superhero person?
Like a- you know what I'm saying, like if you was like,  you- Did you follow growing up like superheroes?
Cause I did.
Were you a cartoon person?
What was your favorite on Disney?
It's called Even Stevens?
I need to look that joint up.
I- I mean, how it go though, man?
I mean, what is it?
Like what type of- like is it like a mouse or s- or- or- you know what I'm saying, is it like a human or is it- Yeah okay.
Do you think you could relate to it more because you had a brother and a sister also?
You know what I'm saying, and you- did you like s- find some similarities there?
Right.
Ah that's interesting cause I'm the middle child too and I understand what you mean by that.
Yeah I definitely understand what you mean by that.
Ah yeah, that's just like they treat my brother RD-NAME-1 like that   He twi- you twins and-    Yeah I feel you, man.
Cause the middle child it seem like we get washed out, man, sometimes, right?
Ah yeah, exactly you ain't nowhere, you- nah, you just- Cause you either the first, as you g- If you born in the middle you in the way.
It's like you in the way.
Right, like dang you in the way right now, what are you doing?
Yeah I feel you on that though.
So you never like,  dressed up for- like for Halloween and stuff?
You ain't did all that?
Who were you?
I'm talking about like who you- like, what superhero were you?
Skeletor?
From He-Man?
Remember He-Man?
Yeah, don't lie- you don't like He-Man?
Oh,  that's what's up.
Can you draw?
Cause you can like- So you never just like went to school for it or nothing, you can just naturally draw?
Are you left handed and your brother's right handed?
Now that's crazy, That's not crazy but that's just wild.
That's- Is that just how it is though?
It's- Wow.
Has y'all ev-  has ever a time- T- give me a story, give me one good story, man, we'll close this interview.
Give me a story where someone actually thought- a good one now, when a- someone actually thought that you was him, and he as you and you played along with it and you learned something that you didn't wanna know,  it's like- you know what I'm saying?
I'll let you go from there, you- Just tell me- nah, don't- tell me one- You- give me one that w- outside of- of somebody- Give me a story, man, you give me a story you choose to give me, man.
Give me a- give me a twin story, man.
What do you mean, hold on, what do you mean talking to her like, talking to- you've already been dating or you just- just started talking to her?
Mm.
So basically- So just give me a time when you used it to your advantage when you was wrong.
I mean, you can give me a clean story, I mean, you ain't gotta elaborate, I'm just saying, give me a- give me one good joint or you ain't it- it ain't- whatever, I'm just saying give me something that- Yeah keep it real.
Yeah you ain't gon- it ain't nobody judging nobody.
I'm just saying it's- it's- I'm just saying it's a good story cause it- don't nobody get it like I'm around a twin right now, I don't- I don't be around- you know what I'm saying, so I don't under g- I love the stories, you know what I'm saying, hearing about how that interaction, you know what I'm saying, was and how y'all took advantage of that.
Cause you obviously can take advantage of being a twin  you know what I mean.
Right.
Right you- that's not you.
Right.
So somebody can start a conversation with him and try to fini- Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Well, I feel you there.
I feel you there.
What- Yeah.
So let me aks you this, um-  That's a good story, thank you for sharing that story with me,  you know.
Like what- it- is there a g- is there something that y'all used to compete against each other against like maybe it was a card game or   something like that?
Like do you- would p- you know what I'm saying, sometimes he's good, sometimes, you know, y'all used to just have fun playing together?
What sport?
Bas- like basketball, football, baseball,  Football.
Mm-hm, yeah ain't nothing like that, that's the best.
Who- who won?
Yeah.
Well, man, well, thank you, man, I appreciate the interview, man.
I appreciate your time, I know you gotta-  got something to do, so.
But  thank you, man, I appreciate you, man, you know what I'm saying,  so.
Unless you have something else you wanna say?
What would you tell kids like right now, if kids or somebody heard this, you know what I'm saying, like kids was listening to this right now, what advice would you give them?
Mm-hm, so if a kid was out there saying, what do you mean by my mind is my best weapon?
Mind is a powerful thing.
Mm, I appreciate that.
You ever been to a play before?
A live play?
You wanna go see Phantom of the Opera?
You into the opera?
Curious?
Have you ever seen- like do- sometimes when you're in the house like do you watch the opera?
You know what I'm saying.
Mm-hm.
So what did it- like, when did that start,  you know?
Yeah, ain't nothing wrong with that.
And always ask questions.
Mm that's- Can you play any instruments?
You still know how to play the drums and trombone or you used to know how to play?
You said the words, you ain't nowhere, um, a couple times.
Is you- you know, out of- what'd- the h- I mean, what does that mean?
What does that mean?
So it can be used in a lot of different terms?
A lot of different ways?
Mm, mkay.
Well.
Oh okay.
So,  I'm'a try to use it in a phrase, from what- how you explained it I'm'a try to use it right.
Dang man, the Redskins up seventeen thirteen,    they ain't nowhere.
So is I- did I just use it right?