Okay, for a starter  uh, could you tell me the kinds of games you used to play as a kid, say around  ten or eleven or eight?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Never played kick the can or tag or  ?
So what would  would you play during recess?
Which games?
Do you remember?
Mm-hm.
How did the first ones  to play tag get picked?
First one it   Do you remember?
Were there any rhymes or little poems ?
Sometimes you know kids will say one potato, two potato, three potato, four.
Things like this?
And the last one,  the last at the end of the rhyme will be the one who is chosen ?
You don't recall anything like that?
How about uh  hide and seek?
Um  do you ever watch television?
Um,  Do you have any favorite programs?
Is there anything-  or is there any uh  adventure story programs that you recall from  that you could tell about?
Mm-hm.
Do you remember an episode of any program?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Do you remember any  in particular?
Can you tell me about one?
piece of the old one.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm- do you have a pet?
Have you ever     Mm.
What happened to it?
Where did you keep the rabbit?
Uh, was it large enough    ?
Did you name it?
How did you  feed him?
Lettuce and carrots, stuff like that?
Any of the cats ever go into um      Alright, very good.
Have you seen a movie recently?
That impressed you?
What was that about?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Sounds like a good    No, .
Uh    Steiger    And what do you study in school?
What kind of stuff were you studying  back in elementary school?
Mm-hm.
Even in elementary school?
What did   when you were young?
What did  kids do after school without  ?
Do you think kids uh, at that age  uh, nowadays, are doing the same things,  the sort of things that they did when  ?
I interviewed a young man your age not long ago, and he was  very sure that they didn't.
Kids are more destructive now  Uh, what, what does a person your age do?
Kids at your school.
Did you ever have a teacher that hollered a lot?
You know like, was always getting on the kids for something?
Good.
Um  do you have a teacher that you remember as the best teacher you ever had?
Mm-hm.
What is it about that-  well first of all  do you remember what it was about the fourth grade teacher  ?
Mm-hm.
What about the ones you have now?
Did you ever have a teacher that you intensely disliked?
Or sort of disliked?
what it was about her that   Sounds like she could  stand some improvement.
Anywhere in your  educational history can you remember  a time uh  in which there's-  children  played a trick on a teacher?
Practical joke like thing Oh my gosh.
Hm.
that successful.
Uh when you were young was there a group of kids that you  always  uh, stayed with and played with?
Um what were they all in your class the same years?
Mm-hm.
Do any of them speak any foreign languages, uh  like another language?
Any of them  speak any that they learned  ?
Was there one kid that was sort of looked to as the leader?
Do you have any idea what was    that would make one     Mm-hm.
Were there any white kids in the bunch?
What about now?
associate with regularly?
What about a new kid that wanted to uh  go join the group.
Did he have to do anything special?
How would, how would he go about it?
If one had wanted to  be with you, and you would accept him?
Okay.
Uh  what are your plans for when you finish school?
Well, finish your education.
what else?
questions of   I want you to use your imagination.
Suppose that you could be given all the money that you wanted,  what would you do with it?
Are you stumped?
What about living  in Atlanta for instance?
Suppose you were just getting out of college and someone made you this offer.
Do you have any other ideas?
Good.
How do you celebrate  Christmas in your family?
And starting  the day before Christmas  What do you do for Christmas?
When you were a little kid  would you go to bed earlier to make it come faster?
And then what would happen the next day?
What was the best present that you ever got?
Oh.
Is archery your hobby?
What else do you have ?
What do you read?
Novels?
Mm-hm.
Sounds like me when I was your age.
Think you'll ever  from reading too much?
Apparently  if you're   spend all my time reading.
be outside.
Well  this is kind of uh not very important, were you ever in a situation where you thought that you might be killed and that you might die?
A terrible situation?
Sometimes uh  people  talk about fatalist notions.
Whatever's going to happen is going to happen.
So uh,  there's no sense in trying to change  agree with that, or?
No, that's good.
Most people have trouble with this question.
It's kind of philosophical.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Your argument is pretty good so far.