So if you could say your name,  your age, and where you're from.
And happy early birthday.
Um, okay so we were just talking about Seat Pleasant so we're gonna back up again.
Um, so tell me about  your neighborhood in Seat Pleasant.
And- um, and you were talking about how your family's a community so can you- I'm sorry, the recorder was messed up, can you tell me about that again?
And so your mom lived in that house and then she said she met your dad.
Okay,  so let me- Since you mentioned high school, we're gonna go back to childhood but I wanna talk about high school for a minute.
Um, what high school did you go to?
And I know in DC and the DC area, high- like, your high school is a big deal.
So,  first of all, tell me about  why-  first of all tell me about why high school is such a big deal in this area and then tell me about your high school and like what it's known for.
Yup.
S- So now you talk about, um, that it was a baseball school.
What- what defined you in high school?
How were you in high school?
Mm-hm.
It's okay.
Um,  so it's so funny because one of the questions I had was- Um, you said it was very influential for you so,  um,  when you left high school- So what was- what kind of was your trajectory from when you left high school, and then your next step was working with the judiciary committee.
And then what happened?
So, okay I had a different question but I wanna go back to something you just said, right.
So DC is this melting pot.
Now think about DC and the area when you-  maybe fifteen, twenty years ago,  and now think about it now.
What have you seen, how- and have you- have you seen this transition?
How do you feel about it?
So let's  let's go back cause, I mean, I'm sure you remember as a kid some of these abandoned buildings when they were at their thriving point.
So what were some of your favorite  activities or places to go or places to hang out when you were younger?
Mm.
Hm.
So, it's interesting.
Let me  jump in.
Um,  I didn't know this about Union Station.
I wanna go back.
Because I think of Union Station like, oh let me go I can get on the train or I can- you know, that's my pass through point for the subway.
Like I had no clue that Union Station- Cause I'm not from DC obviously, so  I had no clue that Union Station was like, the spot.
Wow.
Tell me about go go because I've heard different stories about it.
Who's your favorite group?
Rare Essence, tell me about them.
Mm-hm, mm.
Cool.
My, um, boyfriend loves, uh,  I think it's Backyard.
And  the What Band.
And so I hear a lot of that.
All the time.
Okay, we gon- we-  we're gonna do it.
Let's- let- we need to plan a date.
And  we gonna do it.
We gonna- The whole- okay, what's the whole experience?
Do I need to wear the boots and- Okay.
Mm-hm.
Where are the top- like, where are some good go go spots?
Oh.
We should-  I- we-  one night we were in U- we were on U Street, we were having dinner,  and we walked into,  um, I can't remember the name of the lounge.
It's across from Ben's Chili Bowl but I can't remember the name.
And they had a go go band.
And I lo- We went ins- Marlee?
Marlee and-  I can't remember the name of the group but it's Marlee something.
And so we went back the next week to hear her sing.
I mean, she was really good.
It was- they were a really good group.
Um,  so I- I did enjoy them.
Um,  So go go e- I'm- it's growing on me.
When I was here for college it- I was like, mm.
But now it's like, okay, okay lemme get some congos going.
Um, so I- I feel you on the go go, I do.
Mm-hm.
Right.
It- it- like I said, it grew on me.
Like, I- I do enjoy- Especially like some of the nice, subtle go go music, I really enjoy like just listening like, okay,  The jazzy go go?
So, um, yes   that's a very good-  Because I think about  like when this girl was singing and, um, she did like an Adele cover,  and then she did, um,   ah, what's that group?
Ugh.
Mm.
Mm mm, it was a popul- Oh,  anyway.
But it was like she just- it was a mix.
And then they did an original song, to kind of spice it up, you know, so people would not be like- Cause me, I wouldn't know their music.
But they mixed it up.
And then like, some I've heard like they do like some hip-hop covers and then they do- and then they'll flow into their thing.
And I'm like, okay I can get down with this.
We went out to a- like a little  club  lounge place.
And it was really really fun.
Like it was like, okay this is not too bad, it's- alright I can- I can vibe with- It wasn't- you know, cause it wasn't like ten year olds either.
And I  w- am glad it was like, adult, it was like over twenty-five, and it wasn't like, the little- Right.
Cause that can be mm, you know.
It is.
So besides- Okay, so,    um,  you talked about Union Station and now we talked about go go and now we gotta set a go go date.
Um,  what are some of the like  rest- Cause DC has like, fifty million restaurants.
What are your favorite restaurants even growing up as a kid and even now?
Or places to hang out and eat?
So let me ask you this because I- I've heard about this Horse and Dickie, I've never had food from there.
Um,  where are some other- So, besides them cause I know they're very close.
People from the office still get stuff from there, right?
And then where are some other  like kind of-  Cause I like the little hole in the walls, I think that's the best experience.
Where's that?
Mm-hm.
Two on some corners.
Mm-mm.
I'm sor- I'm sorry, I'm  Like- yes like-  Okay.
Hm.
So d- okay, so most of your experience probably was in,  um, PG,  Prince George's and DC.
Were you- did you do a lot of dabbling in northern Virginia?
No?
So are there boun- Like, DC you- I know you talked a lot it's like it's neighborhoods, but are there boundaries like,  are there very clear boundaries?
Hm.
So do you feel like- You said you lost about seventeen friends, and then do you feel like there was every a time where you were like, oh my god this is it, I'm gonna die?
Or so- and-  Tell me about it.
How old were you?
Mm.
So do you feel like-   Okay, so that was kind of the  like,  whoa moment.
What do you feel like has been your  like, most  fondest memory growing up  in this area.
Because, I mean, even though they have that-  you know we have the-  the bad memories, the scary memories, there are still all the good ones that kind of like make you smile and just- Mm.
Oh that's always good.
So,  now let's fast forward a little bit.
So you were in the Army.
And then so- um,  how-  what was the path after that?
So,    um,  what do- okay, so what do you do at the Boys and Girls Club?
Do you like it?
Tell me how you really feel, okay.
What do you feel like has been your most rewarding moment,  and then what do you feel like has been your most challenging moment at work?
Right.
Mm.
Um,  okay so let's not talk about work anymore.
Um, not that I don't like work, but  work is-  work is work.
And-  and you do it all day, every day.
Um,  so I know that you are now working on your college degree, right?
So tell me a little bit about that.
Hm.
What are you getting your degree in?
Gotcha.
So, okay I know we said we were going away from work, but now that you brought that up.
So is this your-  um,  I know you said you love your job, is this your be all end all?
What- or what's your end goal?
Yeah I do like like you said the flexibility of it and- and, you know, we have to go beyond what's ris- listed on our job description cause I know even us, we have  things that are not listed on our little bullet points.
We are in the other duties as assigned.
That's their favorite category.
Mm-hm.
Because that's- that's gonna be- You might have seven things but really we want you-   other duties as assigned.
This gonna be your major bullet point right here, this is what we want you to do.
Um, and I- I will say that I know that you are a team player and, um,  I know one thing that we have talked about is the whole mentoring piece.
And this is actually k-  kind of helpful, cause I can kind of get a sense of who you are and how- and how we want to- to grow.
And I think- So,  I'll ask you this question even though this has nothing to do with growing up in DC,  what do you feel like is the area that you want to like, grow the most.
Mm.
The person that you would think not, or the person you're like, mm I really don't wanna deal with them, but they have some- they have that nugget or that kernel that I really need.
And you're just like, alright let me suck it up,  deal with it.
Knock, knock, knock,  excuse me.
Um, and so actually what I'm going to do now is I'm gonna give you an assignment, I'll e-mail it to you, that I want you to prepare for, um,  we're gonna meet tomorrow.
We'll- I'll be in the office all day.
So we'll just  kind of  steal away and go somewhere.
But I'll prepare an assignment- um, prepare an assignment for you for tomorrow, um,  so that you can  uh, get ready.
And that'll be our first  piece.
Um,  And then I guess- Okay so let me go back  to-  I know, we- we have been everywhere.
But that's okay because sometimes I think it's just, you know,  nobody is  just one person or one  dimension right?
People have so many aspects.
You were a wife, you were an employee, you are a student.
You're not just,  oh,  I'm just- I just work for the Boys and Girls Club.
You have a life outside of that.
Your life doesn't stop just in this one year.
You  have had thirty-three years of-  you know, of things, so.
It- it's- it's more so even though we're all over the place I think it- it's really good because  you've helped me kind of understand more about RD-NAME-2 and- and you've given me like, some great stories about like, DC that I had no clue.
Like I really honestly had  no clue,  um,  some of- some of the things that-  like the life.
And I knew go go music was big but I didn't know h- And I- I had no clue about Union Station, like that Union Station was the place to hang out.
Like I had no clue.
Hon- like- And it's so funny because we have our annual formal,  our senior ball at the Union Sta- at Union Station.
Mm-hm.
Um, each year they deck it out with lights and everything, and I'm just like- Union S- right, like, I mean, it's beautiful, it's, I mean, absolute g- like, transform the place.
But I'm thinking like, why would they do Union Sta- But now I kind of understand the back story that Union Station was  not simply just a  place of transportation.
But it's like, a place of  activity and life and- and socializing.
Totally changed my viewpoint  about Union Station.
Mm-hm.
And that's so in- And I-  Because DC is  the political capital of the nation.
Um, how do you-  You know, and so I know  I wasn't here the first time Obama got elected but how was the city?
How was,  I mean, even just leading up to the election and  just the pulse of the city and then when he got elected, and being so heavily involved?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And then my last kind of fun question just cause you kept talking about the Redskins, and then I'll just have you, um,  do a couple things for me.
So,  this whole thing, they fired the coa-  Okay, you already know where I'm going, what're your thoughts?
Mm.
You'll go all the way.
Mkay.
From  fifteen L's to fifteen W's, whichever way it goes.