Uh, when's your birthday?
Where were you born?
What neighborhood do you claim?
Northeast?
And have you lived in DC all your life?
So you've not lived anywhere else?
Okay.
What school do you go to?
What grade you're in?
Where'd you go to elementary school?
RD-SCHOOL-1?
And middle school?
Where?
Oh.
Do you know where your father or mother was born?
Fairfax and Landover.
And  do you know what your parents do?
So I'm'a stop writing.
Alright, so,  tell me a little bit about  where'd you grow up?
Like what neighborhood?
In Clay Terrace?
Do you- um, tell me a little bit about  when you were younger.
Are you an only child?
Mm.
I didn't know you were a cheerleader.
How long have you been a cheerleader?
Oh, congratul- You're a new cheerleader.
Which one?
Okay.
Are you the oldest of your sis- of your sisters and brothers?
Mm.
Can she cook  really well?
Does she still cook now?
Oh, sorry.
Clearly I'm doing extra with my little microphone.
Is that your mom's brother or your dad's brother?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
That's about it?
Okay so let me- let me ask you some questions then.
So- cause you just told me a whole lot of stuff that I didn't know.
Cause I don't really- I've seen you, and we went on this college tour together.
Um, so I have a lot of questions.
So let's back up.
So tell me- so when you-  you grew up in Clay Terrace, and then  what do you remember about your grandma?
Tell me about your grandma.
Before she passed away, what- what do you remember doing with her?
Like,  were you one of her favorites?
What do- what are your favorite memories of your grandma?
So  how old- how old were you when she passed away?
She passed away in two-thousand nine.
How'd you f- were you- were you with her when she passed away?
Or d- were you at school?
Like, were you- Mm.
Was she like a big- was she the center of your family?
Like- Oh that's when things kind of got- Mm.
And do you think it's because she passed because she was kind of the rock for your family?
Did y'all have traditions  like, with your-  besides going to South Carolina did y'all have other family traditions?
And did that stop after your grandma died?
Oh.
So tell me- tell me about your- Did you live in a house or an apartment when you- when you lived with your grandma?
Okay.
So where do you live now?
So how did- okay, so do you mind telling me how you got into foster care, like  and how that happened?
Mm.
And so they took you guys out of the house?
Did y'all get separated or were y'all able to all go together?
So your little brother's with your mom.
Okay.
And so-  and so now you are- you said you get to go back home with- you get to go back home?
Mm-hm.
Okay.
And-  and the reason that-  so, nothing that they did- So you get to go back home because- because your time is up or whatever the case may be?
Mm-hm.
That's awesome.
So tell me  how did you end up coming to the Boys and Girls Club?
Oh, she came first.
And so how'd you- how'd you walk- how'd you  come in?
Did you just cause- just cause to pick her up one day?
Or just because- Like, how'd you come in?
And how long ago was that?
Two years, and so you've been- Three years ago.
And you've been coming ever since?
So tell me what's been your  best memory at the Boys and Girls Club.
What'd you do?
Did you have a solo or you- was it the whole squad?
Okay, and then I know we were just- before we started recording you were telling me about the college tour, tell me a little bit,  like, was that a f- you told me that was a fun trip.
Why was it fun?
Tell me-  describe the college trip cause I haven't heard it and  I know what it was like for me as an adult.
But tell me what it was like for you  as a- as a young person going on the college tour.
Like who?
Like who did you become friends with?
Mm.
You wanna go to college when you get up- when you grow up?
I mean, when you graduate?
Where do you wanna go to college?
Why?
Why Delaware State?
Mm-hm.
Oh.
What do you wanna study?
What do you wanna do?
Really?
Why?
Okay, Miss RD-NAME-2 need her hair done.
Um, so let's go back for a second.
Do you like school now?
Do you like- Why?
How long is cheerleading practice usually?
Every day?
Ooh.
And do you cheer at the football games and stuff?
So this is like, all year.
So you both seasons.
Oh, okay.
Wow.
Um,  what got you into cheerleading?
Um,  who-  so do you- Okay, so what's your favorite subject?
Really?
Are you good at math?
Really good?
So what math are you in right now?
You're in ge- oh.
Yeah, I think- And you're in tenth grade?
That's a s- Yeah, I took geometry in tenth grade, too.
Um,  what did you take last year?
And you take algebra two next year?
And then- Mm-hm.
Yup.
Um,  is your high school challenging?
Do you think it's because-  But do you feel like you're getting a good education?
What- what's your fourth period class?
Uh, ELA, oh, English language arts?
So what're you doing in there?
Like what kind of stuff are y'all doing?
Tell me about- I have no clue what you're talking about.
No, that's why I'm asking, like I don't know what you're talking about.
And so  y'all are like, reading their stories?
Do you have to like, compare their stories or something?
Oh so it's a book.
Oh.
What's the book called?
Is there a Wes Moore Two?
Y'all have to read that one too?
So when you read Wes Moore One you're reading about one guy?
And then Wes Moore Two is about the other guy, and you have to compare their two different stories.
And so these two stories was written by the same person?
Oh, okay.
So they knew each oth- did they know each other?
And so why do you feel like the kids in your class don't pay a- they- they're not paying attention?
They're not taking it seriously?
Do you like- are-  are you interested in like, language and l- I mean, like,  not language but just reading and stuff like that?
Oh so you want them to shut up so you can listen.
I'm surprised you ain't tell them to shut up.
Oh.
Cause I know how you can take- like, look y'all, shut up.
I know how you can be.
Um, so I'm surprised you ain't got up and been like, look y'all, shut up.
Get it together.
Um, do you have a favorite teacher?
Or have you ever had a favorite teacher?
Who?
Why?
She's- she's your math teacher right now?
What makes her so good?
Oh, not like your English teacher.
What do you mean h- Tell me how she controls her class.
How long are you in- is it block schedule?
Or er- or one hour?
Okay.
Oh so she gives you like  Oh okay.
I see.
Okay.
Um,  describe her for me, tell me about her.
Is sh- But you like her.
Um,  do you feel like-  So going back and thinking about like- so think about your foster-  your foster mom.
And thinking about  uh, Miss- Miss RD-NAME-2 her name?
Do you feel like some of the things that you like about Miss RD-NAME-2 did you see that kind of- those good qualities in your foster mom?
Why don't you like people yelling?
So why is it okay for you to yell?
So you- it's okay to yell when you cheering, but not any other time?
So you just like to be calm.
Okay.
What do- You know what,  I think when I f-  remember- when I first met you and what I remember, I remember you being a lot more rowdy.
And I rem- You do seem a little more calm.
What do you like to do for fun?
So why are you not still on the dance team?
Why?
Why?
Is that something that you wanna do?
Is it something that you want to do?
But you know if it's something that you really wanna do there are people who will help you, right?
You know that?
You know, that's one of the reasons that you come to the Club is so you- cause you have people who  care about you and wanna see you do well.
Hey, somebody's ringing the doorbell.
Um,  so let me ask you this because I've heard two different things now.
First you tell me it's because it's too challenging but then you tell me it's about the money.
Is it about the money or because it's too hard?
Okay.
So forget the money, let's say you had the money.
So it's no longer about the money.
Would you be up for the challenge?
Why not?
Why?
You're beautiful,  you're talented,  there's nothing that's different from you than all those other girls on the team.
You just have to work hard.
Do you want it hard-  do you- If you want it bad enough you can do anything you want.
Oh that's different.
That's different.
But I know- I think there's something else there, but we gon- I'm'a let that go right now, I'm'a let it go right now.
I'm gonna ask you again though.
I'm'a ask you again.
I'm'a let it go right now.
Let that go right now.
So tell me,   do you like living in DC?
Why?
What do you mean?
How do- Mm, how do you get around?
You ride the  train or the bus?
When was the first time you rode the train?
How old were you?
But how old were you when you first rode the bus?
Like, much younger?
Probably like, five, six?
Oh.
So, is like-  but now you ride it by yourself?
Do most kids like, ride the Metro or ride the  bus and train by themselves?
What's the craziest thing you've seen on the Metro?
You don't see crazy stuff on the Metro?
When people are riding the train they don't do stupid stuff?
I think the one- I saw a man taking his clothes off on the train.
And I was like, oh Lord.
Is he gonna-  is he gonna- Tell me what-  I did not see this, what happened?
Where did she get the urine from?
So she got back on the bus.
Oh, uh-huh.
No.
When was this?
For what?
Cause she was mad?
Because the lady told her to have a nice day she wanted to throw pee on her?
You know, I'm gonna- I'm gonna stop telling people to have a nice day.
Dang, you can't even tell people to have a nice day no more.
Were you at- were you at the Club when all that stuff was going on at the Benning Road Metro, like when they had that big  fight and stuff?
Maybe-  mm, maybe this was last summer?
Like maybe a year ag-  mm, yeah it wasn't this summer.
Maybe it was like, last spring.
When it was l- remember all the stuff was happening with like the police and stuff?
I mean, they had a whole big like,  riot  like,  on the buses and stuff, and then they had a whole big-  like, it was a big, big fight at the Metro at Benning Road.
It was crazy.
It was crazy.
Um,  it was like two, three hundred people down there.
It was really bad.
Were y- you weren't there?
What happened?
Oh.
Uh, Neighborhood beef stuff?
So it's a lot of stuff going on?
Like it's- is that a big thing?
Oh.
Hm.
I can close it, hold on a second.
Is hood beefs like a big thing in DC?
Like- So tell me about it.
But tell me about like, just in general like,  what's some- what's some-  like, some that you know of, like some hood beefs.
Like they- one of the people k- one of they people killed somebody in they- Oh wow.
What's another?
Any more?
Are those- are- is it young people or is it like-  like what- what age?
So they don't beef in the Club but they beef when they leave?
So how does that work?
So they cool in the Club but then they  go outside and- and it's all like, I'm ready to  fight you?
Mm-hm.
And so-  so what'll happen?
And like- but if you talking to me,  so who side you gonna be on now?
Cause you talking to me.
Oh even though you talking to me though.
So they ain't gonna think you a traitor?
Oh, it ain't like that.
And is this like- is high school- is it bigger in high school than like middle school and stuff?
So what happens in, um-  Is it- is it- is- is school  d- tough?
Like is it dangerous?
Y'all have met- so you have to walk through a metal detector before you come into class?
I'm- If you got oil?
Like-  like  just- What is oil gonna do?
Oh, like glass.
Mm-hm.
Oh cause they think you got something that you ain't supposed to have.
Do you see a lot of drugs and stuff in school?
Do you see stuff besides-  besides weed?
Do you see like-  you don't see other stuff?
But just-  but you see people with  like weed and-  and stuff like-  They get-  do they get in trouble?
What happens like- what happens if I get caught?
And that's it?
Wow.
Mm.
So,  do you see a lot of drugs and stuff in your neighborhood?
Why not?
You don't like people?
What does that mean?
Why?
You think they not-  You stick to yourself?
Who is RD-NAME-2 and why after his- or h- is it he or- he or she?
Okay, who is RD-NAME-2 and why are you- what happened  with his birthday?
Cause clearly there's something going on with RD-NAME-2 and his birthday.
Hey RD-NAME-2, who you- who you, RD-NAME-2?
Tell me about RD-NAME-2.
That your boo?
Mm-hm, tell me about RD-NAME-2.
Oh.
Oh, we don't like RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 shady.
RD-NAME-2 shady.
So how- what happened on his birthday that made you find out?
Oh, RD-NAME-2 is shady.
Oh.
Mm.
I don't like it.
Yeah we ain't- we don't like RD-NAME-2.
So you still- you don't talk to him no more, right?
How long was you dating RD-NAME-2?
So for like-  so about a year?
Two years?
Ever came to the Boys and Girls, so that's two years.
Oh you been coming three years.
But y'all broke up, how- when- when'd y'all break up?
Oh, th- like, this your boo like, y'all just broke up.
RD-NAME-2 come to the club?
Mm, I gotta go look up RD-NAME-2's information.
So.
Mm-hm.
You met him at the club?
Wait a minute, okay, back up.
So tell me how you met RD-NAME-2 then what hap-  Walk me through the story, okay, cause clearly I'm messing it all up.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Okay.
Hold on.
So go back to- uh-huh, yup, so the girlfriend jump in.
Oh that's why you and RD-NAME-2 ain't frie- Oh.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Are you over it?
Are you over him?
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Speak on it.
Mm.
Okay.
You sure?
Who you talking to now?
Mm.
What's his name?
RD-NAME-2?
Tell me about RD-NAME-2.
Oh okay, you like him cause girl your whole face lit up.
Tell me about RD-NAME-2, what?
Mm, mm.
Okay.
That's a plus.
Girl.
I like it, I like it.
That's good.
Especially after this whole  RD-NAME-1 situation you needed to take a minute.
Yeah I appreciate that, I appreciate RD-NAME-2 being persistent though.
Mm-hm.
Hey boo.
Mm?
Not yet?
But it's coming.
okay.
What he gotta do he gotta buy you some more lunch.
He need to take you to dinner, y'all need to go on a date.
Oh what y'all went to see?
Oh, mm I can't, mm-mm I don't see scary stuff, I don't do that.
Mm.
So you don't want him to know.
So RD-NAME-1 don't go to your school?
What school RD-NAME-1 go to?
Oh okay.
Oh, he going to college?
Where he going?
He need to.
That was kind of- Yeah I c- I see you throwing that shade.
You- you can ask RD-NAME-2 I don't know.
You was tryna be sh- I saw you throwing that shade right there.
Oh, oh y'all going together, he a junior?
What- what year he?
He a freshman?
He's sixteen?
How he- how he got a car?
You gotta be sixteen to drive.
Mm.
Let me not be getting in his business.
Mm-mm, I ain't gonna ask her.
Let- let that boy drive his car.
Y'all be safe when y'all out.
Cause RD-NAME-1 gonna be at college.
But co- he should be going to c-  he gonna be going to college in August.
So for them six weeks he ain't gonna get no ride.
Don't let him back.
Don't let him get back then for six weeks.
Don't do it, RD-NAME-3, I'm telling you.
Yes?
RD-NAME-2 I'm'a leave RD-NAME-3 over here cause I'm about to get ready for Wii games so I don't wanna have to  look around for her.
Oh okay, put- just sit her at my desk.
Okay, how late are you gonna be?
Oh- Um, we're almost done.
We- sorry we got distracted.
Okay don't forget she has to leave  okie dokie What time does she have to leave?
RD-NAME-3 if you can just stall on her.
Her mom will- they'll let her stay if she's in here but I just wanna get her started .
Oh.
Okay.
Alright.
Alright.
Alright, so we gonna cut it off.
But I want you to do one other thing for me.
Um,  I know, sorry.
We started talking about  boo.
We got distracted with, um, with RD-NAME-1.
He- see, RD-NAME-1- mm, don't get caught up with RD-NAME-1 now, please.
Um.
You sure you don't?
It's still a part of you that want him.
Mm, I don't believe it but I'm- I'm'a let it go.
Alright I want you to read some stuff for me, okay?
Read it out l- I know.
Thank you, I love you too.
I'm'a- I'm'a give you a Tootsie Roll after we finish.
Yeah.
But thank you, thank you for your help.