And where were you born?
And when did you move here?
So when you were two?
How old are you now?
So you moved here-  so you've  been living in DC for fourteen years?
Or living in this area for fourteen years?
What neighborhood do you claim?
Forestville.
So you've lived in Fort Lauderdale for those two years.
Anywhere else?
And  where do you go to school now?
And you're a student.
What did- where were your parents born?
Your mom was born in Southeast,  and your dad was born in  Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
What do your parents do?
Did your parents go to college?
Okay.
Alright.
So,  where do you-  so you live in Forestville now?
Okay, do you live in a house or an apartment?
Okay,  do your- is it a house your family owns?
Not yet, but you're buying a house?
Oh,  awesome.
And how long have you lived there?
Oh, so you've lived there a long time.
Um,  describe your house.
Okay.
Um,  and you've always lived in this neighborhood, for the most part you've lived in this neighborhood.
Um,  as you were-  and as a little kid, did you  play with other little kids outside?
Or did you- were you mostly in the house?
Are you the oldest?
Okay so what's the ages of- of you all?
Oh, so y'all were kind of in the middle of them.
Mm.
So what kind of games did y'all used to play?
Like what did y'all used to do when you'd go outside?
So how do you- okay, so,  you know, different people have different rules for dodgeball so explain to me what rules y'all had.
Oh,  okay.
And, uh, so there was what, eight of you guys?
Somewhere like that?
And so two were on the ends, and six in the middle.
Okay.
And then,  so do you still- are you still an outside kind of person now?
Mm-hm.
Now what I learned about you that I didn't know is that you're a big sports guy.
I don't think I knew that, so tell me how'd you get into sports?
You did cheer, did you like it?
Hm.
What made you do cheerleading?
Mm.
That's a interesting way to get into- into cheerleading.
Um,  so tell me-  Okay so you played sports, so let's talk about school for a minute then we're gonna talk more about sports.
Because you have a very interesting  uh, career with lacrosse.
So tell me-  tell me about elementary school.
Mm-hm, or kindergarten somet- Why?
Mm-hm.
So, let me ask you this question then.
Um, sorry I was just making sure we're all set up in here.
Do you feel like-  cause it was a Catholic school, right?
So do you feel like the structure was-  was-  was what made it?
Was it the- because it was a religious school?
Do you feel like,  um,  just because-  like, what made you feel like you had to be respectful?
Do you have a fave- did you have a favorite teacher in elementary?
Mm.
Oh wow.
Oh.
Okay.
Alright.
Wow.
Um, so when you got there did your mom- was your mom-  did your mom want you to go there because you-  because she went there?
Or because of- more because your neighbor?
So,  how did your- okay let me ask you this then, how did your mom move from Southeast to  Forestville?
Oh.
So that makes- that's why.
Okay, that makes sense.
So your dad was a football star.
Was he good?
Mm.
What was his weight class?
Oh.
So what, two fifteen?
That's- that's the highest.
Two fifteen and up.
So he was the one who got you in love with sports.
So that was- okay so that was eighth grade.
So then- and now you're in eleventh grade.
Okay so tell me how  going from eighth grade to  high school-  W- you weren't in private school anymore?
So what do- when you said you abused it, what did you do?
What do you mean you abused it?
And so you weren't doing your work, you were-  Oh, I see what- Mm-hm.
Okay, so then  Did you get caught or your grades were slipping that's how you got found out?
Mm.
And what did you have at that point?
Oh okay so you were- you were okay, you weren't like failing out.
But you just needed to do a little better than you were doing.
So how did you get involved in lacrosse, because you don't see a lot of black people playing lacrosse.
So are you good?
So-  so you're going back to RD-SCHOOL-4?
So, okay, so how did you end up at RD-SCHOOL-1?
Mm.
Um, do you like your school now?
Like, how many people?
Oh wow.
So the school's like, three thousand?
Wow.
What's the racial makeup?
Like So your class is thirty kids?
And is it more blacks, whites?
Mm.
Do you think you're getting a good education?
So what do you- okay, so let's see, where do you wanna go after  c- after high school?
Where do you wanna go to school, do you have a location?
In Boston or in Cause there's a Miami University in Boston, that's w- Okay.
Um,    So,  do you-  why that school, first of all?
Mm.
Have you checked it out?
Mm.
And then  do you think that-  So let's go back.
You said you wanna get some money for college.
Do you feel like your family- that you've had everything you needed?
Did you ever feel like your fa- your family wanted for anything?
Every month?
Right.
So that's another  house mortgage, rent, that's another payment, yup, yup.
Mm.
Yeah.
So you feel like you're in the middle class?
What makes you feel that way?
Hm.
And your parents feel like they-  they want more for you?
Is that- that's why they feel like they're not in the middle class?
Well, I mean, they're parents so they have a different perspective.
Their world view is different, right?
Um,  do you think-  Let's go back to high school for a minute.
Cause you're in high school, you're a boy.
Are you into girls?
And do you have a girlfriend?
Tell me about her.
It sound complicated.
Oh, like all the- oh, really-  oh, okay yeah, really across country.
Oh, that's cute.
What's her name?
Aw.
And is she a junior as well?
Okay.
Hey,  Um,  long distance is hard.
Um, but- I mean, but y'all have technology now so phones.
When I was younger, phones like- it cost like fifty cent a minute to call long distance and you could not be calling long distance.
Now you can call and text, but you probably text more.
Um, but you got  f- a iPhone, you can Facetime, all that stuff.
Right.
Wow.
What time you have to get up in the morning for school?
Oh yeah you need some sleep, you need to go to sleep.
So,  my other question-  well, I have a couple other questions.
But my other question is    how did you start coming to FBR?
When was that?
So-  so tell me why you wanna be at the Club.
What's been your favorite moment at the Club?
Mm, gimme three.
Why was Birmingham so meaningful?
Yes.
Mm-hm.
That was- I- I remember, I still use that, like that just really- I remember everybody in the room was like, oh my god that was amazing.
Um,  that was just a- a moment.
Um,  so where do you wanna travel next?
Where do you wanna take the campaign next?
Okay so you wanna just do a whole country tour.
Um.
The Our Lives Matter bus?
The bus tour?
Alright the summer tour of two-thousand eighteen.
Alright I'm'a let you- I'm'a let you lead that.
I'm'a put you in charge.
Um,  what do you think-  So I wanna talk about-  cause you brought up some issues about community and-  and even our politics and things like that.
What do you think- and you're a black male  what do you think  about  DC  just in general?
Is it like a good place for  young black men?
Like  what  specifically?
Is there something that like, specifically like, really  hurts you that you see?
Mm.
Hm, what do you think about violence-  the violence, especially  toward young black males?
What do you think about-  and not just young black males committing violence, but what about violence- um,  young black males being attacked?
However you- however you take the question.
We can talk about both.
Mm.
Do you feel like-  Well lemme ask you this question, has there ever been a time where you felt like you were gonna die?
Something's gonna happen to you?
Tell me about that then.
Yeah, okay.
Do you consider yourself a silly person or a goofy person?
Hm.
How do you feel like you do that?
Why do you feel like it's your responsibility?
Mm.
So the other-  So that's interesting because-  So when you're not having a good day you're not wanting to be  the positive person.
What happens?
Hm.
Why is it infuriating?
Are you gonna miss them when you move away?
Mm.
I would like to re ch- I would like change my answer.
Why yes and no?
You- what game do you play?
Overwatch, Xbox or PS?
Mm.
Tell me about the game.
It's called Overwatch?
So it's like a killing kind of game?
Shooter, mm-hm.
So I don't like those kinds of games.
Not- I mean cause I just don't do well at them.
So like Titanfall, it's like those types of things.
I like something like-  have you played The Witcher?
Oh my god.
It's amazing.
I think- so like The Witcher, there's a couple of other ones that are like, similar.
So it's a open world concept.
And, um, it has a story.
Um,  but it's just- it's one of those.
I think it was game of the year  two-thousand fifteen?
Um,  and then they had like a game within the game called GWENT, it was a card game.
And so now it's become it's own game.
And so it's- it's a really-  Um, I- I love video- I'm a- I used to be a Super Nintendo, well Nintendo, Super Nintendo Um, Nintendo sixty-four, like I was a Mario fan.
Yup.
Uh-huh.
So what's a Lego game?
Hm.
Hm.
I have to play a Lego game.
Which one do you recommend?
For me to start, my very first one now.
So which one do you recommend?
Xbox One.
Lego Marvel Adventures.
It took that long?
Oh, okay.
That's right.
You did say you don't watch TV on the weekends.
I mean, on the week- during the week.
Um, so let me ask you this.
Let me ask you a couple of questions about- about DC.
Have you noticed that it has changed a lot?
Or, not really?
Mm-hm.
Tell me- like, give me some- describe what you mean.
What about  the construction, do you think that's good for the city?
Mm.
And you think we're going over that limit?
What do you think about the culture?
Do you think with people moving  places that  they haven't been before, do you think the culture's changing?
So let me ask you this then,  do you feel like-  do you feel like this area is more-  this area is more so getting affected or other areas as well?
Oh.
Mm.
So let me ask you some questions about DC.
Have you been like a tourist in this area?
Like do you go to the monuments and the museums and stuff?
That's a lot, it's what, three-hundred eighty something stairs I think?
Three sixty-six, three eighty-six, something like that?
Okay that's a lot.
Um,  you don't have to call Miss RD-NAME-2 for that field trip.
Um, I'll do another one  another one.
I'll take the elevator up, actually.
And I'll meet y'all up there.
Yeah I'll meet you up there.
Uh, I'll meet- And we'll take good pictures.
We'll take pictures, we'll take good pictures.
Um,  do you think  most people do that though?
Do you think most people get around and ap- appreciate- People come from all over the world.
You talk about  restaurants, what's- what  restaurant have you toured- I mean, have you toured, have you visited that you think is amazing?
Mm-hm.
Yup, I- I agree, I agree.
Um,  so let me ask you about  mumbo sauce.
Do you eat mumbo sauce?
Tell me about- describe mumbo sauce to me.
What is your favorite place to get it?
Cause, you know, different places have- their mumbo sauce tastes a little different.
Where is your favorite mumbo sauce  place?
Just to get- and you only get it on your f- chicken, you don't put it on your fries.
Okay.
Oh, you don't get it on top you get it on the side.
I appreciate that,  Cause, you know, most people say you gotta get it all over everything.
That ain't it.
Okay, so- but do you feel like you're still authentic even though you don't get it on the chicken you get it on the side?
Cause someone told me that if you don't get it on the chicken, it's not- you not eating it the right way.
I agree, I mean I personally would lath- rather dip than to smother.
But I get it.
And they're like, you're not authentic if you don't get it  over it.
Mm-mm, nah, okay good, so we can eat mumbo sauce together, we c- we can work it out cause we like to dip not pour.
What about go go music?
So you're a rap- you like rap more.
Mm.
So you listen to the lyrics I appreciate that.
I- the words matter, right?
It matters what you're saying, it matters how you think about-  It doesn't just- just don't say anything like  No like, mean something when you say something.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
So, couple last questions, um, cause I know you wanna get out there with your friends.
Um,  are you proud to be from DC?
Do you peop-  do you think people look at people from DC as like, knowing their stuff?
Oh that's the reputation, you know your stuff and you're a great partier.
I did not know that was the reputation.