So, Miss RD-NAME-2,  if could you tell me    your birthday?
Pisces.
Where were you born?
And  what neighborhood do you-  do you claim as your neighborhood or the leighborhood you live in?
And how- And how long have you been in DC?
Um, and besides Indianapolis  and  Trinidad neighborhood, what other neighborhoods or other places have you lived?
What about school?
I knew you was gonna be .
And what about-  what do you- what do you- what is your occupation?
And where were your parents born?
And what did your parents do?
Okay.
So you moved here in nineteen sixty six.
So you were  what?
Twelve  ish?
So  when you first moved here- tell me about  moving here and how- and what-  what you remember about being like, when you  first got to DC.
Why?
So when you- when you moved here- where'd you- where'd you move to?
Where was your first house?
In Parkland?
And what do you remember about it?
Do you remember the neighborhood?
Do you remember, like, some of the other people?
I know you said people across from you were really, like, they were dark and pretty, but do you remember, like,  was it a lot of kids?
Did you play outside a lot?
So they let- you couldn't play no more with them?
So,  cause you wouldn't get out.
So-    So when you couldn't play double dutch anymore what did you do?
With the boys?
Really?
So tell me about your favorite  basketball game as- growing up, as a kid.
So you played basketball for- oh, cause your dad coached.
So when you all moved to DC, did he continue to coach?
Oh, he was go- okay.
Alright.
Gotcha, so that's how you got to DC.
Okay.
Okay.
And so,  how long did you stay in Parkland?
So your whole childhood in- your whole childhood life in DC was in Parklands?
Um,  and that area right now is notoriously known for drugs and violence.
Is it- was it like that then?
So why'd you do it?
And you wanted to be just one of the guys?
So let's talk about-  let's talk about school because I think school-  let's think about middle school cause that's when you were- you moved here right?
Is at your middle school?
Mm-hm.
So tell me about middle school a little bit.
Did you have a lot of jackets?
And a lot of tennis shoes?
Mm-hm.
Ch- So you were a tomboy, but you were also a girly girl if you wearing the skirts and dresses.
That's what worked for you.
That's what got all the boys?
Were you good?
At basketball and fighting?
Tell me about your best fight.
Mm-hm.
So who won?
Did he continue carrying your books?
Mm.
Okay.
You know, I'm'a come- I wanna come back to it.
But I wanna ask you- cause I totally forgot about  asking you, kind of, about your family.
So,    when you were explaining your mom- so tell me a little bit about  growing up.
Your mom-  was anybody in the house with you all?
Were you the oldest?
Okay.
Oh, so similar to RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-2.
So he understands the str- you understand his struggle.
Mm-hm.
But you also understand her struggle.
She was- She was the baby.
She was the only one,  then twelve years later, he come and pop up.
So how did it feel to be dethroned?
And he didn't bother you anymore?
And did your mom and  stepfather stay together for a-  a long time?
Tell me about your siblings.
Your older- your-  your older brother.
Mm-hm.
What about your younger sibling?
Mm-hm.
So we'll talk about that in a second.
Um, and so,  but you're still very close with your youngest brother?
Okay, and then you said your mom.
So your mom is still living.
In Bowie.
Oh, in Beltsville.
Did you have a really close relationship with your mom?
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
Alright, amen.
So when you were se- um, so in high school,  um,  you went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Tell me about RD-SCHOOL-2.
Uh.
Mm.
Did you have a favorite subject or a favorite teacher?
I know you didn't like this one, but did you have like- Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So once you left high school, what did you do?
Oh, cause that's- okay.
So before we- Okay.
So now you are married at this p- So how did you  meet him and how did y'all get mar- and like-  how did you decide to get married?
So  when you left, and y'all were married, where'd you move to?
When y'all got married, where was your first house toget- or- or when y'all met, when you left.
Tell me about that house.
Do you feel like y'all were like-  That y'all had made it?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
And so then,  that's when y'all got together.
So then how'd you have your daughter?
I mean I know you- how you had her,  but I mean-   Mm.
What year was that?
So what was going on in the city?
Like, so you had- In your world, in your home,  you had the good l- like l- you were living the good life.
Y'all were comfortable, but what was going on around you?
Mm-hm.
Benefits.
Yes.
Thank you.
Um, what about, do you remember the Civil like-  the Civil Rights, like,  you lived that time.
That ain't something you  read in a history book.
That wa- you were alive in that whole-  You were younger.
Because they thought y'all were biracial.
What part of- do you- this was- you were still in Roanoke at this point?
Mm-hm.
So you left-  I wanna go back to Florida Avenue cause I wanna  talk about how you transitioned.
So when you left Florida Avenue, that was, you said, the early two thousands.
And then you moved to Hillcrest.
And why did you decide to move to that- No I think it was ninety five.
Ninety six, cause remember, my eighth birthday party, when I had the moon bounce, the clown, the pony.
I was- that was ninety eight.
But that's when I had  the whole carnival.
That was my eighth.
But- And I was there- we was at RD-ADDRESS-8.
That was my Disney World party.
We was living  on RD-ADDRESS-4.
I think we left  after my mom graduated high-.
Ninety.
My mom graduated high school in ninety four.
I think we-  I think you moved Thirtieth Street in ninety five,  ninety six.
Mkay.
No!
My eighth birthday party  was the  carnival.
In the back yard.
You remember that?
Ninety eight.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
So early nineties.
So what made you move?
Cause you went from- Hiding drugs in my stroller.
Lot of m- So how did you feel when you found out you were having a granddaughter?
Well,  you didn't know she was a granddaughter at that point, but.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Cause you might get it.
So that's your other daughter?
Mm-hm.
And so then you moved over here.
Has it been different,  um,  this- cause this is not-  this is a very different neighborhood.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So when,  um,  for RD-NAME-3 you- you made sure she went to college.
Was that really important to you?
I remember that night she done beat me for some, uh, alcohol.
Man.
Grandma bought the bottle of alcohol and took me with her.
So- It sounds like both of 'em.
But she has ten grandkids.
Oh, see, I didn't know that part.
Well I know you.
I can be your grandchild.
I don't- I'll let- You can have me.
Okay.
My birthday already passed, but we can- But a lot of that partly comes from, we lived with you.
Like the other grandkids That makes a difference.
live- So- We- we was around her.
Mm-hm.
That makes a big difference.
But even still, it's still a open house.
We had a lot of space, so if they wanted to come and spend the night, they could, but it seemed like they only come around- Cause like I said, my grandfather, he had a lot of money and so,  if our cousins and their friends would come over when they wanted something.
Like Christmas.
Like, you know?
So they had plenty of opportunity to come around, but it's like only when they needed something was when they would come around.
Something just- it was seventy five.
.
So tell me about-    Obviously DC has changed.
You've been here for a long time.
How have you seen it change?
What changes have you seen?
But that's your mayor for life?
Right.
Mm-hm.
I don't remember.
What about-    What about the, um,  like the neighborhoods?
Have they changed a lot  that you can tell?
Mm.
Right.
Mm-mm.
Like to keep to yourself.
But do you feel like it's better now?
Like all the neighborhoods, like as far as how they look and stuff?
What's Mm.
Well we talking about even right now, Grandma.
Like know how they fixing up like, even by Thirtieth Street, like how they about to add the Walmart right there.
Like the fix of it .
Mm.
That's what we talking about.
Like the new DC.
Mm-hm.
So H Street.
Cause you're from Trinidad so that's closer to H Street.
What about U Street?
That area has changed.
Mm-hm, cause that's who's out there.
So let me ask you a couple different questions, then we'll finish up cause I know you got to go get your nails done.
Yes ma'am.
Um,  tell me about go go music.
I know RD-NAME-2 was talking about it, but  tell me about your experience with go go music.
Mm-hm.
And then you went to school with Sugar Bear.
What group is he from?
Mm-hm.
So do you have, besides Chuck, do you have another group that you like?
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
But- And go go is unique to DC.
What made it so unique?
Until Daddy wanted to shut 'em down.
What's your favorite song?
From- from late group,  from they generation.
Yes, ma'am.
Mm-hm.
Not the oldies but the goldies.
Yeah, the XIB In the Kitchen one.
Yes.
But she- But sometime she be more hip than we are.
Like she come home, like, Y'all heard that Lil Wayne song?
We'll be like, What?
This was when Lollipop first came out.
We were like, what Grandma?
Oh you gotta listen to this.
You gotta listen to this.
Oh yeah.
And what song was it that came out that you told me about?
From Chicago.
Jeremiah.
Birthday.
What was it called?
Birthday what?
You remember it, .
RD-NAME-2, you know that song, Birthday Sex?
I like that song.
Mm-hm.
But she like her oldies but goodies, but she'll- don't laugh.
Don't, Minnie.
But she'll listen to our music.
She like her oldies and good- but goodies, but she'll listen to our music every once in awhile.
You don't like it- So let me ask you- what about mumbo sauce?
Do you eat mumbo sauce?
Have you- Mm-hm.
You like-   If you had to describe it, how would you describe it?
No other words?
Can you tell me what's in it?
Okay.
Yes ma'am.
You- yup, you can get back to me.
What do you-      So I forgot to ask Terrell this, but,  people come from all over the world to  see the monuments, go to the White House, all that.
Have you been a tourist in your own back yard?
Do you go to the monuments?
Do you- museums?
What's your favorite book  or movie  or TV show?
But Grandma.
Grandma- Grandma, you- Grandma.
You're gonna be a man next month.
So you gonna change it up?
Okay.
What's- what's gonna be your new name?
I was going with you.
I was gonna support you in it.
What?
Grandma .
Thank you.
I can't keep up with RD-NAME-3 though.
Mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
I'm tryna get on her level.
I know but you adopted me so I might be able to get on her level.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-2.
Yup.
I got it on tape.
Mm-hm.
I've said that.
No, that's true.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yes ma'am.
Yes, I've told her that.
Really RD-NAME-2.
See?
I've-  I have tried to t-  Have I not?
Mm-hm.
I have tried to really tell her that you can't be afraid.
That's what he talked about, that they have a fear, but a fear- not a  scary fear, but have a-  a reverent fear for the Lord, but not to drive.
Life is gonna happen.
Remember I told you not in - I'm not gonna say it's hard, but  I grew up in a time when I- when I really wanted to drive, my grandfather wouldn't let me.
He was the type like- I'll take you everywhere you go.
You're gonna have a chauffeur for the rest of your life.
And I will make sure that you have a driver  to take you everywhere you wanna go.
And that's why Grandma said you need to be independent.
Yeah, now but- And so driving is part of that independence.
But now that I've been in those three car accidents, I'm never gonna be .
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And I got it on recorder, so if we need- if you need me to play it again for her- it's right.
Mm-hm.
You make me feel special.
Oh Grandma do you- Hm.
I drive.
I've been- I was trying to tell her-  you can tell- ask her.
One of the jobs that she really wanted to apply for,  she couldn't apply for it because she doesn't drive.
Okay.