Um,  where were you born?
Um, what neighborhood do you claim?
Do you have a neighborhood?
Did y'all move around a lot?
Mm-hm, so you were East Side.
Mm-hm.
You don't .
She's like, what are we talking about again?
Oh.
I don't think I knew that cause when I took you home one time,  I took you to your-  it was- you were still in Clyattville at that point.
Mm-hm.
How long have you lived in Valdosta?
So your whole life?
Have you lived any other place for like, more than like,  a couple months?
You went to RD-SCHOOL-1  but  you didn't s- where- when did you start going to RD-SCHOOL-1, what grade?
So you went to?
Mm-hm.
You said third through fifth.
I'm so sorry that you're a Viking.
I'm sorry.
I mean, I know it's a- it's hard to- I mean, y'all can win sometimes  Sometimes.
Sometimes.
I mean, I'm not gonna judge you, trust me.
We'll- we'll talk about RD-SCHOOL-1 and RD-SCHOOL-3 in a minute.
Um.
What do you do- what do you do for work?
So what do you do with the rest of your time?
At RD-SCHOOL-4?
Oh, we can all do that.
We can all cheer for them with no animosity, no hate, just all love.
They do.
And the whole town come together, so yes go Blazers, go Blazers, Blazer Nation.
Where was your father born?
We'll put Jacksonville, question mark.
Question mark.
Mom?
Mkay.
What does your dad do?
I didn't- I don't think I knew that.
Did he ever do anything else?
Oh, I'm- I think when I knew-  so did he do like, um, FedEx maybe when  like, when you were in Girls of Grace?
Like when you- that's, okay.
So I was thinking FedEx- Okay.
So I wasn't crazy.
Like, in my mind he wasn't truck driving he was- whatever he did at FedEx.
But I didn't know that, at least in my mind he worked for FedEx.
And whether he was truck driving to- What does your mom do?
Mm.
How long have we known each other, or how long have you known me?
Hm, twenty eleven, twenty twelve?
Because I had RD-NAME-3 , right?
And now she - she was baby.
So, Twenty eleven?
Is that when- At the same time y'all was- you started high school?
it was six, seven years?
Seven years feels good.
Growing up.
What's wrong with that?
What's wrong with that?
Okay.
So now I'm done typing, for right now.
So tell me about-  well since you now live in that home, so tell me about  your home  as you remembered it as a little girl.
How it looked but also the neighborhood like, were there other kids involved,  is it different from  where it is now?
The house or the neighborhood?
So when you were younger did you like, play outside a lot?
Were there a lot of kids?
Really?
Hm.
So- so what did you- what did you do most of your childhood then if you didn't play with kids, what did you do?
So, you said it felt  when you were younger  and maybe now, looking at it, it felt-  it feels different.
Hm.
But now you're grown, so you think it old and rusty.
Who live- is it you and your mom?
Okay.
Oh, I forgot about that you had- I was only thinking about RD-NAME-2.
I forgot that you- Wow.
Now I feel really old.
I forgot- I forgot there was a third.
I think I knew, but I think I just forgot.
So,  now let's see.
So, tell me about your house  cause then you moved to Clyattville, right?
So tell me about  that house and getting it built, and what you remember about that.
Sometimes a tropical storm.
Did you have neighbors?
We had a neighbor.
He had all boys?
They had like, a whole barn?
Mm.
And then when'd y'all move from there?
And y'all moved back to?
Okay, where- and tell me about your house in Lake Park.
Was it because it was just on like, a lot of land or ?
Mm-hm.
Was it- so how did- okay, so how did y'all move from  Lake- not Lake Park.
Clyattville to Lake Park?
I mean, I know you probably used a moving truck, you didn't probably walk.
Uh, here's my mattress let take this in.
Um.
Maybe the better question is why did you move?
Hm.
So how'd you- why'd y'all come back to-  h- m- no.
This one is how.
How did you end up getting back into your childhood home?
Um, okay so let's talk a little bit about school because if I remember, you were very smart and kind of nerdy.
In a good- in a good way.
So tell me, um, tell me about elementary school.
You went back and forth between RD-SCHOOL-2 and RD-SCHOOL-3.
What was your favorite class in elementary- or your favorite teacher?
What grade was that?
Mm-hm.
Oh, before you went back.
Then let's  move to middle school, cause that's a   interesting time for young people.
Did you like middle school?
I- that's when you started going to RD-SCHOOL-1.
So, what's- so you were standoffish, not mean.
I mean, you were in the seventh grade.
You probably did.
So let's go back.
Let's go back to sixth grade real quick, cause I think- I think the band is really important and- and I know the band was important for me.
So how did you get involved?
Was it because RD-NAME-2 was in the band?
Because your brother did trombone- interestingly most people don't wanna do what their older siblings do.
Mm.
So- okay so you got into the band and  were you good,  initially?
From the beginning?
How did you know you were good?
Okay, that's confidence.
Mm.
Right.
So then when you moved to RD-SCHOOL-1, tell me about being in that program.
Kay, talk about that.
Why?
They do say band kids are actually like- they did a study and they showed that kids who are in the band, actually have higher grades just on average, band kids versus non-band kids.
Tell me about band camp.
So tell me about both so I can- so we can do a comparison.
How was your hat?
Like, concert or marching?
Mm.
So how does- okay, how does band camp work?
I mean, cause I knew how it worked at Valdosta, how does it work at RD-SCHOOL-1?
Did y'all go somewhere, were y'all in town?
Mm-hm.
How'd y'all mark y'all spots on the field?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I do.
So ours, we had like little plastic  like, the sheet protectors and we had like, rope, and then we wore them around- so every- like, if you're number eighty and I'm number seventy-nine, I would have- I wouldn't see what the whole thing looked like, I would just get all the quarters for seventy-nine and you get all the quarters for eighty.
And so then we'll like- they'll go to say, chart thirteen or set thirteen.
And so we would go to set thirteen, everybody was standing, and then they would adjust you.
But we had little mason jars, like the lids, so- and it would be numbered, like you had a white one, a red one, and a yellow one.
And so when we go to chart thirteen, you put down your red  mason jar lid.
So then- and then you go set fourteen and you set fifteen.
So then you can do them-  you can  always hit your spots for those three sets until you get those three down, and then you move to the next.
Exactly.
And we did a lot of shows that had like, specific- like, you know a lot of sets, you just- in kind of some little circle- but when you like, in a really like, specific- like, it has to look like a s- specific picture.
That's the ones that get- are the hardest ones.
Like, we had one that was, I think it was a star.
And we had something else, and we did Wizard of Oz.
And- and I remember the guy never,  um, cause I was dating him at the time.
And so everybody was like, RD-NAME-2 tell you boyfriend to get in his spot.
And I was like, Get in your spot.
Like, what I'm'a do about it?
I can't move him to the spot.
But you have to be in the, you know, picture.
So tell me about your senior year.
How was it different?
Did you ever try out for drum major?
You didn't wanna be drum major?
Oh.
Oh, see  that was right after me.
Yeah, so I was Mr.
RD-NAME-2 and Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
So, I didn't know anything.
I've met Mr.
RD-NAME-2 though, cause I went out to the high school a couple years ago and I met him.
So why was it important for you to be section leader?
How big was the section?
Wow, that's a lot.
Mm-hm.
So talk about being a senior, right.
So now you got to make hats and you had- so tell me about your hats you made.
So was concert season different?
Or d- was it still.
Where'd y'all go as a- in the band?
Both.
Me neither, honey.
What'd y'all do?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So now tell me- okay so then you-  did you have a favorite subject in high school?
Why?
What math did you take?
Mm-hm.
That was my least favorite one.
Did you do calculus?
Okay.
So did you graduate with honors?
How many people were in your class?
And then how'd you end up going to RD-SCHOOL-3?
Mkay.
What were you gonna do at RD-SCHOOL-3?
In biology,  mkay.
So how did you transfer to m-  how did you  get to RD-SCHOOL-3 and then-  cause you're not doing anything with biology, you're doing mass media.
So how did you get, like, that transition?
Mm-hm.
Do you like it?
So what's next?
What-  what do you wanna do?
What- ultimately, what will be-  what do you with this,  and then is that your dream job?
Mm-hm.
So.
What do you think  will come first?
Mkay.
Do you plan on staying in Valdosta or you wanna move?
Where do you wanna go?
Why California?
Where do you- what part of California you wanna go to?
I don't, mm-mm,  I don't know.
LA?
Yeah.
It is.
So in a couple- how many years?
Like, two or three years?
I love it, expecting it.
Okay, so let's talk a little bit about your family.
Um, do you guys have family traditions?
None?
However you interpret it.
Whoever you  think- when you think traditions, you think your entire family?
Mkay I'll ask you this, did y'all go to church together every Sunday?
Mkay that's a tradition, so tell me about that.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
With church?
Oh, with your family.
So how did y'all move from- so after- well, after church, did y'all go out to eat or did y'all- did your mom cook?
Is that your favorite- like, your parents' favorite restaurant?
But not your favorite?
What's your favorite restaurant?
Seafood or Chik-fil-A, but not Cracker Barrel.
Duly noted.
Alright, so when did y'all move from Greater,  uh,  Greater Union to  Lighthouse?
Or was there another church before that?
It was a no for you?
Oh, so it was very quiet.
So that was a no.
Um,  and so,  that's when we met.
So how did you find out-  cause we met through Girls of Grace, right?
So how'd you find out about the program?
Do you remember?
I think I just told your mom and dad inaudible.
Do you remember?
Oh, good.
Uh, you- no you are real, cause I think I remember the f-  I wanna say like, the first day- cause you knew the people- you knew the girls, but you were- you were kind of must- mm.
And the girl said you was mean.
I knew better.
But sh- you were standoffish, you were.
But then you got better.
At what?
Do you know what I remember the most?
Was  I asked  one of the questions was about  someone you admire, someone you  liked, or  something like that.
And do you remember what you said?
Demi Lovato.
That make sense?
Mm-hm.
And that's- and I think that you- You weren't even ready for me to remember that.
Mm-mm.
I mean, I do have a notebook but it's in DC.
I just- I remember.
I remember because I didn't know who Demi Lovato was at the time.
Like, because I wanna say she had just really come out for real, for real.
But she wasn't main- like, she wasn't mainstream with music yet.
And so  I remember going to look up, like I was like, who is this Demi Lovato?
Cause I was very invested, I wanted to know like, whatchu girls were like- what was going on, so I could be kind of hip.
Who?
I do love Tori Kelly.
What's your favorite song?
How'd you  come to like Tori Kelly?
I've never seen that video,  so I have to go look at it.
That video.
Um.
um-  Oh, you have?
Where'd you go?
Where?
Who was she, um, performing with in A- in Atlanta?
There were no other acts in the show?
Hm.
Because my friend went to her concert, it was her and-   it was like another like,  bigger name.
Mm-hm.
But I can't remember who it was- but it was like,  it wasn't hip h- it was like, pop-ish-   So that concert was-  yeah.
It had to be like,  last summer-ish, summer- spring, summer.
Mm-hm.
Um.
Oh d- this wasn't Atlanta, though.
This was, I wanna say- where'd they- did they go to L- was it LA or somewhere in Texas?
But I don't feel like it was i- like, t- I feel like it was pop.
Like it was a- artist.
Mm-mm.
Maybe.
I- Okay, so clearly I've- I am seeing my- I remember that like Demi Lovato clearly I did not.
So let's talk a little bit about-  well first of all, how did you end up at  the optical, cause.
Mm-hm, I remember.
Cause she's black, right?
Is this Miss, uh, RD-NAME-2?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Small world.
Where is she now?
Hm.
Um, I know her from  church.
So before Pastor RD-NAME-3 was at Lighthouse, he was at Antioch.
And that's where I met them.
And she was at Antioch, yep.
Cause her mom and dad were there before her dad died.
I think her mom still goes there.
I'm not sure if she and her husband still go there.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Small world.
You weren't ready for me to tell you that.
Pulling all of these little surprises out right here.
So let's talk a little bit about   Valdosta Um.
A first- a fun question first, so talk about the Lowndes, Valdosta rivalry.
Mm-hm.
That's sounds good, we'll go with that.
I don't know.
Make me lie.
No, cause Valdosta- yeah.
Lowndes is on the like, south  end of the city.
And Valdosta- This whole city is- you can drive the whole city in twenty minutes.
Hm.
That was like maybe what, five-  was that five or six years ago?
Okay.
That was six years, mm-hm.
But that's right I-  I didn't go to the game, but I was here.
That was right before I moved to DC.
Mm-hm.
So you like f-  what's your favorite sport?
Who's your favorite team?
Mm-hm, all those.
Obvious.
I don't actually support that, but move on.
I don't support that.
Mm-hm.
They are disappointing-  I mean, yeah.
Super Bowl was, ooh.
I guess it's been a little pattern.
The Hawks, the Bulldogs, the Falcon, hm.
I see your point.
I see your point, I see your point.