Um,  thank you for doing a interview RD-NAME-4, um, how long have you, um,  lived in DC?
Fifteen years?
Can you tell me, um,  like did you s- go to school in DC?
Like tell me how did you end up in- were you  born and raised in DC?
Moved out?
I mean how does that go?
Okay, what, um-  what schools did you go to?
You went to RD-SCHOOL-4 High School?
How was that?
Graduated?
So tell me about yourself, tell me about your family.
Two sisters?
Did they grow up in DC or Maryland?
Oh- Ho- How is it- is- can you like-  is there a difference like f-  from- from someone from- from Maryland or someone from DC?
More spoiled?
And what type of words does  like someone from, uh,  like,  can you tell word wise like how someone says something?
To like if they- like you say, okay they must- they're not from DC or they must be from Maryland, or whatever the case may be?
So what are the DC words that are-  that are,  you know,  strictly  DC words, you know.
Like give me some words that are used-  give me some slangs or words that are used and only pertain to DC.
Mm-hm.
How about words like on fleek?
And- Alright.
Is um-  as far as like- are there any other words that you can think of like give me some words that was used in the past  and  all the way up to now that was- that- as far as back as you remember certain slangs or whatever was used.
You okay?
Yeah so give me some words from- from  all the way back as far as you remember all the way up to now.
Some slangs.
Give me some examples.
How old are you?
Thirty-six?
So tell me about your neighborhood that you grew up in and tell me like, how was it.
So how long did you-  so  basically-  did you spend more DC  in your earlier life like  from what age to what age  did you live in DC?
Legalization of marijuana.
When did that come about?
So in DC you can walk around and  smoke marijuana?
Oh wow.
Richer environment by-  by-  via how?
Building up the slums?
Is that taking the people  that  grew up here in DC, is it taking them out?
Like the people that can't afford whatever?
When you say fight for the cause what do you mean by that?
Do you have any kids?
Tell me about your, uh, mother and father.
Which, um- Where'd they work?
How'd you grow up?
Oh okay.
Oh okay.
So what did um,  grandma do  for a living?
How was that growing up  like with- with your grandmother?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
So, um,    tell me about, you know, like-  like what did you do like  at your high school, like what are some of the things like-  did you- some of the people you  hung around with are you still cool with today or  how was that experience?
Okay.
Yeah okay.
So you say you got how many- how many brothers and sisters?
Alright.
I got you.
Tell me about like do you have a good relationship with 'em?
Are y'all-  is it up and down, you know, how was- how was that?
Like with any of 'em.
Oh okay.
Yeah.
I understand.
So y'all always been cool?
You and you- I mean it's just-  About what?
Give me- give me one story.
Give me one story.
Okay, now we got that situation corrected, can you tell me, um,  a story about you and your sister, please?
As you- as you got bigger and stronger.
Yeah that sister brother fight.
Yeah.
Are you still real-  Give me a tradition that you  done when you were younger that you've carried  now that you're older that you still do,  that you've learned from your family.
Well think of something that y'all used to do together.
Like  every Sunday or-  do this, you know what I mean?
What- what is something y'all always- that you always look forward to that y'all always gonna do together?
Growing up.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So what about  you know-  let me see, what about the, um-  what about- tell me about mumbo sauce.
Like what is mumbo sauce?
Right.
So you got to have that mumbo sauce?
What do you- you- how do you think they make it, like if you- what do you think that's in it?
Mixed together?
You said it wasn't mumbo sauce?
What about  go go?
Yes, what is go go?
To what-  like what is the differences that like you say in the bands like,  are their differences like in,  you know, the music or how their styles like- how can you- you know what I mean?
No percolating?
What's that?
Talking about the dance, right?
Do the majority of people dance when they go to go gos?
Is it more like a-  I understand what you're saying, a little more like a sacrifice?
Yeah that was-  that was a pretty awesome song.