How-  how many years did your  dad go to school?
How m- What grade did he come through?
You don't know that?
Alright.
What does your dad do?
Does he live with you?
What does your mother do?
What does she do out there?
Good.
Do you know where your mom or your dad were born?
Good.
Alright.
RD-NAME-3, what kind of games do you play?
What are some others?
Do you ever play with marbles?
Um,  what are some games you play at home at night like if you get out on the street and play?
Do you ever play games after school?
What do you play?
You stay up at school?
What is your favorite game?
How do you play football?
Do you make many touchdown?
I bet you're a good- Tell me some more about that  football.
How many are on each side?
How many?
Oh, you could play it with a few or a whole lot?
Good.
Do you ever play Kick the Can?
Set your pencil down so it won't make a noise.
Alright.
Um,  tell me about volleyball.
How many do you play with volleyball?
What do you call it when you  are playing basketball and you try to  shoot in the  wh- In the basket.
Good.
Um, What do you- Do you ever play Hide and Go Seek?
What do you call it when the person runs in?
When you're playing Hide and Go Seek, what do you call it when you try to  run in and they don't-  they won't catch you?
What do you call that?
Okay.
Do you play baseball too?
What do you call those- the- the bases when you run in to the-  first, second, third, and then what?
Home, good.
Do you ever jump a rope?
How many sisters?
Four sisters!
What are your favorite television programs?
Do you ever watch Batman or  or?
What's Batman about?
What's that Boy Wonder's name?
Do you ever watch any scary things on television?
Ooh.
That just makes my spine tingle.
Do you have a pet?
Do you have a pet?
What did you used to have?
Wonderful!
Was he big?
Did he eat a lot?
When did your sister get asthma?
Oh.
Have you ever  um,  wanted to get a wish?
Here, I'll hold this for you.
Have you ever wanted to get a wish?
What do you- What do you do to get a wish?
Are there some things you can do  to get a wish?
I mean if you see a white horse or something, do you wish?
How do you do it?
What do you say?
Do you um-  What is something else you can wish on?
Good!
How do you do that?
And then make your wish?
Um,  have you ever had one of these things around your eye fall out?
Can you wish on them?
Um,  what do you do on the- when you have fried chicken for supper?
Isn't there some way you can make a wish?
What happens to the one who gets the little end?
Oh.
Do you get to wish if uh-  if one of these things comes out- if you lose one?
If you lose a  tooth do you wish?
Oh, and you get one, don't you?
Alright.
Tell me something about this nice school.
How long have you been going here?
You like it?
Do you- What do you study?
And what else do you take?
Oh.
When you sit in your class in your seat, what all can you see in the room?
Good.
If you walk outside of your classroom, what do you call this part out in here?
Um,  where would you go to get a drink of water?
And where do you keep your books?
What-  what if you- are all of your courses on one  floor, or do you have to-  do you go- Well how do you get from these floors?
Oh.
What all do you have outside-  outside of your school?
What all is outside to do?
What do you call all this place around the school where y'all will go outside and- You call it a yard?
What do kids do outside?
Do they- do they- Well that sounds like it'd be fun out there.
Do they have swings?
Do they have any monkey bars?
Do you know what monkey bars are?
Have you ever played on one?
I bet they're fun, aren't they?
What do  kids do when school is out?
Well when you leave here after school, do you go right home?
Uh, do you- do you like to play games where you- Do you play running games?
Relays?
Good.
Do you- Did you ever have a-  a teacher who hollered a lot?
Have you got one this year?
Did you have one last year?
Tell me about her.
You mean she just hollered about little things like that?
Mm.
Did she ever holler or yell much at you?
A whole lot?
What she yell at you about?
Wow, was it your fault?
Oh, and then she started-  Really?
Oh, golly.
Can you tell me about the best teacher you ever had?
This year?
Uh,  why did you like-  why do you like Mister RD-NAME-1 so well?
You mean he tries to help you.
Did you ever have a teacher you just couldn't stand?
Who was that?
Do you have her this year?
Does she yell at you?
Do your um-  What else does she do that you don't like?
They do what?
Mm.
Do your kids in class- Do the kids ever really  trick  your teacher?
What kind of tricks do they do?
What does she do?
Who's the smartest kid in your class?
M-  Have you ever been in a class where there was one kid who was a lot smarter than the others?
Yeah.
Do the  kids who are smart, do they get favors and rewards?
What kind?
The teacher did?
Did you ever get one?
Who was the dumbest kid in your class?
What did RD-NAME-2 do that was so dumb?
Do you ever not come to school?
Well that's good.
What did- Uh- What else did RD-NAME-2 do that was kind of dumb?
Did he have a smart lip too?
And what happened to him when he hit the principal, honey?
What time in the afternoon do you get out of school?
And that gives you time to- What time do  school in the morning?
Well do you ever get here about  oh, a little before nine?
Quarter after eight?
Good.
Um, is there a bunch of guys up here at school that you like best?
That you like to hang around with them?
Are they kind of rough on little boys?
You mean they take it away from 'em?
Well are there certain boys you like to play football and basketball with?
Well who are they?
And you like to play with them better than the boys up here?
Oh all of 'em do.
How old are these boys?
And how old are they?
And how old are you?
Do any of the guys at your school speak Polish?
Do- do you know any of 'em who speak Spanish?
He can speak Spanish?
Does it sound funny to you?
Are there any um- there many white kids at your school?
This- they're all Negro here?
Um,  is there any one guy in your group that you like to play sports with who's the- kind of the leader?
Do y'all listen to RD-NAME-1?
Is he bigger than y'all are or?
Is he smarter?
Can- If a new kid came to this school, could he get in your bunch?
If he can play what?
Then you'll let him in your bunch?
What do you wanna do when you finish school?
When you get out of high school?
And what do you wanna do when you're a grown man?
Oh, that's wonderful.
You must like science.
Did you tell me you're having science this year?
Tell me about what you do in science class.
Good, where do you go to do that?
How long does it take to become a scientist?
What would you do if you were a grown man and you were a scientist?
What does a scientist do, honey?
Is that all they do?
And that's what you like, huh?
Good for you.
If you had all the money you could do whatever you want.
All the money in the world, what would you do with it?
Why?
What would you do right now if you had some money to go spend a whole bunch, would you-  what would you do with it?
What would you buy for them?
What do they uh- I don't know anything about Washington.
What do they call this part of town?
The Northwest.
Um,  what are the boundaries of the Northwest?
What are the boundaries?
Are there certain streets that- What reets?
And- What are some of the- the biggest streets in this town?
What's the name of this town?
Yeah.
But the name of the- What's the name of the town?
Washington.
Um,  what are some of the biggest streets?
What street is the White House on?
You know where the-  uh, you know who lives in the  White House?
Yeah.
What-  You don't know what street that- What street is this one right out here in front of your school?
And what's the name of the school?
Um,  do you know where um-  What is that big highway that goes around Washington?
Do you know what it's called?
Uh-huh.
Isn't there a big road that goes around Washington?
That- Where were you born?
You've lived here?
Good for you.
And- And you've never lived anywhere else?
Um, have you ever- Where?
And now what street do you live on?
Where all have you gone on trips?
Have you ever gone on any trips with your mama?
Where did you go?
And what is that?
Oh that's where your mama- Yeah.
Mm.
How does your family celebrate holidays?
What are some holidays you celebrate?
What did you get for Christmas this year?
Do you play?
What do you do?
At noon you practice?
And play the saxophone?
Is it hard to play?
What was the  best Christmas present you ever got?
Do you have one of those?
Do you mean you- Can you play pool?
How do you play?
Um,  what did you do on October the thirty first?
You know what day that- What did you do?
Where all did you go?
Have you ever seen anything riding on a broomstick?
You know what you call those things?
Witches.
What do you call those  big old orange things that you cut holes in?
And you make a what out of 'em?
Yeah, that's right.
When you ring a doorbell on Halloween, what do you say?
And what do the people do?
If they didn't give you the candy, w- what would you do?
Would you pull a trick on 'em?
You mean a buzzer in your hand?
Did you dress up on Halloween?
Do um-  Do y'all have many fights around here on the school grounds?
Um, are there rules for a fair fight?
What does that mean?
What does a fair fight mean?
Do boys always fight fair?
Oh my goodness.
What else can you pick up to  have a f- fight?
Is there anyway to stop the fight?
I mean if someone doesn't wanna fight, what could he say?
Does the loser have anything he can say?
To make the boys quit hitting him?
You mean you just have to leave?
If you saw someone kicking someone else on the-  lying on the ground or hitting him with a chain or a  stick, and it was supposed to be a fair fight, what would you do?
How do you break up a fight?
Try to hold 'em apart?
Did you ever see anybody get beat up real bad?
What were they using?
Did they beat him up?
Oh golly.
Mm.
Did they-  what happenend to the man?
Did some kids pick him up or  what happened?
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Did you ever get in a fight with a bigger guy than you You don't like to fight?
Do the  guys usually fight like one against one or do they have gang fights?
They double what?
Oh my goodness.
What are- uh, do you have any rules when you have these gang fights?
Have you ever been in the hospital?
When?
Oh.
Did it hurt?
Do you- Was th- When was this?
Mm.
Have you ever been real sick?
Have you ever had an illness?
What's chicken pox like?
Did they hurt?
Do they leave scars?
If someone in your class starts to sneeze or cough, you might say that he's what?
Have you ever been in an automobile accident?
Have you ever seen one?
Bad ones?
Can you tell me about it?
Um,  were you ever in a  place where you thought you might die or  be killed?
When?
Oh.
Did you think you were gonna h- killed?
Oh my goodness.
Were you ever um-  How do you- Have you ever heard people say that  whatever's gonna happen is gonna happen?
How do you feel about that?
Let me ask you a few little things about your house.
What do you call the- the main room?
Front room.
And where do you eat?
Do you sometimes eat in the kitchen ?
Um,  and what do you call it when you- where you  go wash your face and brush your teeth?
And where do you sleep?
Do you have-  Uh, when you go out of your bedroom, what are you in?
Mm-hm.
Uh, where do you keep your clothes?
And do you have a- one of those things up above your house to store  things in?
You know some house- Yeah, do you have one of those?
Do you go up there?
W- Do you have a room down under your house?
Uh-huh.
What do you k- do down there?
Oh.
And what do you call the thing on top of a house that keeps the rain out?
Do you have a good one on your house?
It doesn't rain in?
Uh,  uh, do you have- do you have a  fire place of any kind in your house To burn wood?
Do you know what you call those things  where the smoke goes up out the- Yeah.
Chim- Chimley.
Um,  and people who have  fire places get a lot of that old black stuff.
Yeah.
What do you call those things on the outside of a house where you- if it rains, the water goes in those?
Uh, it's up a- by your roof?
And it'll have a thing- I think you have one on your school- that water'll come down and roll down on the ground.
You know what those are called?
Do you uh own a car?
Do you have a car?
Where does she keep it?
Do you have any store rooms or things?
And you're a good basketball player?
I'll let you hear a little bit.
Okay?
Cause I've got to go.
They're waiting for me.