And what's your birthday Miss RD-NAME-1?
Perfect.
Pisces.
Aries.
You- After- The day- Mm.
You the day- Uh-huh.
And um, where were you born?
When did you move to DC?
And what neighborhood  do you call home?
Like as your childhood home, as you were growing up.
Lincoln Park.
Where is Lincoln Park?
In the Lincoln Park- Okay.
And then um,    you've been here since you moved here- Since you were five, you-  you've always lived here since then?
Okay.
And have you lived in any other place, um-  What other neighbor- or what other neighborhoods have you lived in?
Yes, ma'am.
That's gonna be great.
I wanna hear s- I'm gonna ask you some questions about that.
What school did you go to?
Mm-hm.
What'd you study while you were at RD-SCHOOL-2?
A Voice ma- Oh.
So you still sing?
Really?
Okay.
So now I know you're retired, but what did you do  before you were retired?
And what about your parents?
What- where was your father born?
Oh, I know Pensacola.
And what about Mom?
You are Southern- You know both of tho- Well Pensacola is a little far, but Waycross is about an hour from my house.
And-  I'm- I'm from Valdosta.
Mm.
So I know Waycross.
We go that way when we're going up um- Actually when I'm driving here, I go over past Waycross to get up to ninety five.
Mm-hm.
And we used to play them a lot at ba- in football, and they're one of our big rivals.
Um, cause they were a pretty big  football program.
What'd your dad do?
Oh!
And what about Mommy?
So,  let's talk about when you moved to DC.
What prompted you guys to move here?
Gotcha.
She said, we're gonna go too.
And you all lived in one house?
Did it feel cramped?
Or did you feel like you had- You didn't even realize it?
Mm-hm.
Do you remember  the neighborhood?
Do you feel like you had- Like,  you know, neighbors back then are not the kind-  like  how we talk about neighbors today.
Do you remember your neighbors, the other people on your street?
Maybe the other kids on your street?
Your sister's ch- That would be your niece and nephew.
Mm-hm.
Did you-  Do you-  Have you ever- Have you s- passed by there?
Is that house still there?
Have they torn it down?
It's still there.
Do people still live in it or is it condemned now?
Or it's livable- Mm-hm.
Right, and now- Mm-hm.
And now if you have that area, that's- uh-  right up-  So Columbia Heights,  um, Brightwood, Petworth- Um, so they now um-  Gentrification has reached  that area.
Like Georgia Avenue, you know, you can drive up Georgia and you see big Safeway with the condos and the- Especially where the Metro is.
So where did you go next?
Mm-hm.
Hm.
And so did-  did you guys-  Did your parents have any more kids?
Or after- after your brother died, it was just you and your sister at that point.
Oh, okay.
Gotcha, okay.
So those were the- the three of you guys grew up together and then there was a older bunch.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Oh, so that's why your sister's kids who were around your age, that they were older.
I see what you're saying.
Okay.
And so,  then that's when you lived over in- and you had the preacher.
Now, at that point, were you really big into- was your family big into church still?
Cause your dad was still a preacher, so is that how he met this man?
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Now, did you- where did your dad  pastor?
Did he pastor or he was a minister?
Do you remember a specific sermon or a specific talk that you saw that just really touched you from him?
Like,  I know probably a lot.
You saw him speak a lot, but is there that one time you remember like, man, that's my daddy.
Mm-hm.
Coming out the pulpit and really connecting with the congregation.
Do you feel like you see that in preachers today?
Or do you kind of miss that old timey- Has it changed?
When he's- Mm.
And  do you think-  And maybe that was God's gift to you,  you know, is to give him that spirit.
Because I believe a lot of young people have old spirits.
Like I have a old spirit.
I feel like I'm about seventy three.
Um,  maybe seventy six.
Um, but- but I think young people sometimes can inhabit that  like, maybe as their grandfather or their grandmother And they- Do s- Does he have a lot of the same mannerisms?
Mm-hm.
In session him, yeah.
So you said your dad passed.
Mm-hm.
Inaudible And so what happened after you guys moved from-  So you moved  out soon after he passed.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Oh.
Huh.
Hm.
You can go somewhere else.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Okay.
Why'd you love that school?
What's her name?
RD-NAME-2- And do you get together often?
You can always share a lot of memories and- Inaudible This.
No you fine.
I'm'a move it to this side.
I think that'll help.
That way you can- There you go.
Mkay.
Mm, mm-hm.
Now you worked-  I remember-  Well one thing that I know RD-NAME-2 talked a lot about  was  RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary, and I wanna hear-  And I know you worked at a school not far from RD-SCHOOL-2, but you didn't work at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  but I wanna- I want you to kind of talk about  being in school,  um, like- Cause you came through RD-WORK-4, and then working for RD-WORK-4.
And then,  also kind of-  Do you remember when he was in school?
And like,  I mean I know you remember, but I mean, do you remember like, some of the- Tell me some funny stories about  him going through- Because that was a big part of what he talked about was RD-SCHOOL-2 Elementary.
That school really  changed his whole outlook on everything.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
That's usually how it is.
Mm-hm.
So let's go back because we kind of skipped um,  you know,  how you got have RD-NAME-2.
Like,  cause we skipped from  I think junior high,  and your friend RD-NAME-3, and we went to church and- and then we started- So,  let's go back to high school.
You went to RD-NAME-2, and did you- and did you like it?
What was your favorite subject?
Who was your favorite teacher if you remember?
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Mm-hm.
That's a big old hill.
Oh my goodness.
And at that point, you were with the Uniques, right?
You were with the Uniques in high school, okay.
Uh-huh.
People knew you.
Inaudible.
Wow.
So you're still married?