Did you play when you were younger?
What?
How'd you play root the peg?
What is it?
You have to  eat the dirt?
Did you really eat the dirt?
Oh.
How'd you play hide and go seek?
I see.
Um how'd you choose who was it when you were playing hide and go seek?
Um  did you ever play anything like red rover red rover?
Um did you play mother may I?
Or something like  How did you play that?
Mm-hm.
Um,  when you play football do you have a regular team or is it just a group of kids from the neighborhood or?
Both?
Mm-hm.
Um what was the sandlot team like?
a sponsor or?
Uh-huh what was the other?
Organized well  how was that organized?
Mm-hm.
I see.
Um,  uh back to the hide and seek game,  well any game where you had to choose someone to pick did you- do you remember any rhymes that you would say?
Like um, engine engine number nine, or  something like that?
A rhyme.
Yeah.
When you play jump rope.
Um,  let's see,   do you watch much TV now?
No?
Well when you do watch, do you have any favorite TV shows?
Oh what about um  you watch soap opera often?
you do?
Which ones do you watch?
I see, did you um- so what was um going on when you were watching?
Well that's good.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um have you seen any- any movies recently?
What was the last one you saw?
Do you know?
Last complete movie?
And you mean that how?
well um, what was The Killing of Sister George about?
Um  Well you know give us the plot and how it developed.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Um  could you tell me about school?
You know when you were young just elementary school and junior high school.
Mm-hm.
Let's see uh what did  Mm-hm.
What did you study when you were in school?
You know  any, um, time from  elementary through uh you know high school  you can talk about any of it that you want Mm.
Really?
What was that like?
I see.
Um what did you kids  you know do after school?
Say when you were younger not  high school, when you were younger.
No not in high school, saying elementary junior high school.
High school is a separate question.
Coal?
Hm.
I see.
Um,  did you ever have a teacher who hollered a lot?
What was she like?
Then you think that in some ways her hollering was justified?
Well what type of things did she holler about?
I see.
Um,  well do you remember your favorite teacher?
What was she like?
He.
Now I can see why- Oh I see.
As a classroom teacher what was he like?
What does that mean?
Mm.
Um did you ever have a teacher that you really couldn't stand that didn't really like you at all?
Yeah.
Did um the kids in the class ever play a trick on the teacher?
Never.
Thumb tacks on the chair, spit balls?
Uh was there a bunch of kids that you hung around with when you were younger?
Uh what type of things did you do?
Or what- where- first of all, where um  you know where was this group?
Was it in your neighborhood or?
I see.
What type of things did you do?
Any time the group that you remember most.
In this group um  if someone new  moved into your neighborhood,  um what would they have to do to become a member of your group?
Well um  in this- well was it  just an informal group I understand that but  say if someone completely new  came in  and they wanted to you know hang around with the rest of you, what would this person have to be like?
Um do you have a group that you hang around with now?
What is um, your group like now?
Do you um  do any  different things now I mean do you party together or?
You usually take in um the cultural   another group  Mm-hm.
Um do any of the people in your group speak a foreign language?
Nay- naturally?
You know?
Um any members of your group white?
Mm-hm.
Um  in your group is there any person that everyone tends to listen to or  accepts more or less as the leader not really you know as the boss of the group but   most of the group?
No.
Um  if you could do it all over again, would  there be anything in your life that you'd like to change?
Okay.
Um  well,  is there something that you- is there anything in general I mean that you could tell me?
Do you think that this would've um  presented any advantage for you?
Why?
Okay.
Um  do you like yourself as you are now, as a person?
Okay.
When you were younger what did you want to be when you grew up?
Oh.
Okay.
Um how long would it- do- um when you- uh at that time how long did you think it would take you to do that?
Um  if you had all the money in the world,  uh what would you do with it?
Well not all the money in the world then you would never worry about any of this but um if you had most of the money in the world.
I see.
Um would you describe what you do in a day's work?
I see.
Um how does your family celebrate the holidays?
Christmas  I see.
Um for Christmas,  um  let's say when you were younger.
Did you  all join in and decorating the tree, type of thing or   Okay.
Um  this may seem kind of funny but what would you like for Christmas this year?
I see.
Do you remember the best Christmas present you ever got?
No?
Um were you ever in a situation where you thought you might be killed or you might die?
What happened?
Could you describe it?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Um sometimes people say that whatever is going to happen is going to happen, what do you think about that?
Sometimes people say that whatever is going to happen is going to happen, you know there's nothing that you can do about it it's predestination, predestiny, what do you think about that?
No it's just your feelings like some people feel that they cannot control their future  and that it's already set out, there's nothing they can do about it and however it goes that's just the way it was meant to go.
Um well,  you know how is your general view- I mean do you agree in part with it or you know not at all?
Do you think you can  control your own future?
Yeah.