And  tell me your birthday please.
And where were you born?
And what neighborhood did you grow up in?
Okay.
And how many years have you lived in Valdosta?
Um, how long was that?
Maybe,  what, ten year- And where'd you live?
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Did you live in- have you lived any other place?
Okay.
Where'd you go to school?
What about  college?
Human Services.
Oh okay.
Uh,  what's- what's your current occupation?
Where was your father born?
Really?
Wow.
I did not know that.
What about your mom?
W- what was your dad's occupation?
And what about your mom?
Really?
Wow.
I didn't know she was a nurse.
Just so much to learn.
How long have you known me?
Um, okay.
So we're gonna-  we'll start here.
Alright.
So,  when you were young, did- did you grow up in this- on this street, in this house, were you born, like  in the house, well not the house that we're in now, but the house next door?
So describe the neighborhood when you were a child.
Now did you live with both of your parents?
Like- Hm.
What's your grandmother's name?
Hm.
That's where I got my name from.
Um,  how- okay.
So who else lived in the house when you were young?
Hm.
Were those her youngest two kids?
Hm.
So talk a little bit about  were there a lot of kids in the neighborhood  that you played with?
Did y'all play games?
Did y'all play in the street?
Can you tell me how to shoot marbles?
Like explain how to shoot marbles, I mean we talked about it yesterday, but- Were you good?
Did you ride bicycles?
Okay so,  did you like school?
Did you know about it?
Did you know about college?
Or it was just a simple affording it?
Or was it like,  something that you really didn't even know about?
Was, like  couple of things.
Growing u- so this was the sixties right?
The earl- throughout the sixties.
And the seventies.
So, did money-  was money, or race  the biggest  issue?
Like, being in the south  in- especially in Valdosta.
Was it a race thing?
Not just even college, but just in general was it race?
That you noticed a lot of, or was it  more about having money?
Mm-hm.
Right next door to a coffee shop.
They've-  Did they close and reopen?
Or they just always been open?
Hm.
So,   how did you get into-  When you said you went to trade school, I thought I- immediately I thought you went for cosmetology.
The old time that you put on the stove kind?
So, thinking about- Okay so you went to trade school and then,  how old were you when you went to school?
When you started RD-SCHOOL-3- Mm-hm.
That was a lot.
That was a lot.
so going back.
Let's go back for one more second cause that was- That was a whole lot in ten seconds, in ten years.
Um, how was it having a kid, like young?
Was it  difficult?
Like, was-  was grandma RD-NAME-2, like, okay with it?
Like what was- Oh that's  The Salvation Army?
Was that how- Oh.
Mm-hm.
So when you moved back here, what-   Didn't you take the same job that she had had?
Was that scary?
The little one.
What about your grandson?
Do you see your kids in your grandkids?
Really?
I was like that?
Mm.
A lover of green beans.
That's true.
So,   let's talk about-  talk about your fiftieth birthday party.
But before we got- So when we got to the airport, And we- we had the limo.
Well sixty is coming.
Mm, two.
Then we'll have a graduation.
Hopefully I am.
Is there anything  in life that you feel like you haven't done, that you wanna do?
So,      I wanna ask you this question,  has there ever been a time that you felt like, oh my god  this is it, I'm gonna die.
Like,  my life is about to end right now.
So, on that same vein, I'm gonna ask you about last year,  when I called you  July seventeenth.
You, RD-NAME-2 all y'all were in the car together and I could barely talk.
Tell me what happened.
Mkay, we're gonna shift gears.
What is your favorite  book, or movie?
I Don't Love Him?
Well maybe one that you really like.
Why?
Mm.
And you used to sing, how did you get into singing?
So you just was at church and that just- And then you became the choir director.
Youth,  talk about those days.
When you were the youth  choir director, and youth managed- whatever, I don't know what the title was but it- You used to have sleepovers.
So what's your job now?
Since you're talking about being a product of the streets.
Is it hard  seeing kids,  like,  when you know they can do better?
Mm.
What are a couple of s- southern traditions that you feel like you-  maybe  that you didn't do  when you were in Oklahoma that you could do here?
So I always think,  like I would never do this in DC- Like I would never sit on the porch and shell peas.
Who taught you how to cook?
Hm.
What's your fondest memory?
With Grandma RD-NAME-2.
How old were yo- How old was she?
So this was like close to before she died.
Where was I?
Oh so she had to- No, it was like eighty.
eighty.
Mm.
Y'all stayed overnight?
Last question, if you could leave a piece of advice, what would that be?
Why is that important?