Oh.
I know- My daughter was really sick  so  we had a lot of- When she was real little, we had a lot- I think at one point she was like on ten different medicines I think to try to- She  was only this big.
They're tryna  manage all that and- and  do all that.
But and so I under- I know how it is.
I really know how it is.
So did you meet him here?
I mean did you meet him- H- how did you meet?
How did you meet your husband?
So when you met or how long before you- how long did y'all-  did y'all court or date before you got- Oh!
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
And so when- after you got married, where'd you- where'd you move to?
Oh, okay.
Mm-hm.
It's up closer toward the Silver Spring, getting towards Silver Spring, right?
Mkay.
Excuse me.
Now you came from a lot of siblings.
Does your husband have a lot of siblings?
And so y'all only had one child.
Y'all didn't want a big family.
Mkay.
I was there.
I w- Mm.
I think RD-NAME-3 might be a only child, so I understand that very much so.
Very much so.
And sh- I'm still- she's only four, but I understand Look- you know, I- mm.
So  let's move  a little bit.
So you worked in the schools, and then you retired.
What did you do  kind of- and all this time growing up, I know you had-  you had your family, and then when you were married-  Where did y'all hang out?
Where did y'all go like if you and-  and your husband wanted to go on a date?
Where would y'all go?
And what did y'all do in the city that you were like, yeah, this is my city.
Mm.
What is it called?
Hop Shoppes.
I don't remember it.
I mean I don't- I've not heard of it,  not that I remember- but I've not heard anybody talk about it.
Do you remember the time- Let's go back, even since you were talking about in the seventies and eighties, before-  Do you remember the time of the riots?
Inaudible.
Do you remember  the March on Washington?
So  a few years before that?
Did you participate in the march?
Mm-hm.
So  thinking about  over the last forty years, fifty years  and kind of the city  and how it's changed, what do you see- and- and the fact that you've been able to  live in all parts of the city-  I think that's- that's just really unique.
Um, what do you see-  How have you seen the quadrants  different?
How was it different living in Northwest versus  Southeast is the first question.
And then the second question is  how have you seen the city as a whole change over the last thirty, forty years?
Mm-hm.
Uptown.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
I remember RC sodas.
So  before I go back to the other question- Now H Street- You know, now it's different.
but what did you think when you saw kind of H Street just kind of go down?
Like it-  it went way down.
It was a long time, until-  I would say, what?
The last three, four years, if that?
So what are you feeling now?
Are you feeling like- How do you feel about that  area- Cause that's a big up and coming area now.
And so what do you- How do feel about that?
Right now, it's a lot of um- There are some stores, but it's a lot of restaurants, kind of some of these little trendy places.
Uh- you know, gentrification is- is running through the city,  and um,   I think that that's where you're seeing um, a lot of these  um-  Black businesses are coming back.
Um,  and it's a lot of restaurants.
It's also a lot of little like, dives though.
It's not like these nice fancy you know, seven course meals.
It's a lot of- There's like a wonderful oyster bar down there but if you walk up to the door, it looks so rundown.
And you walk in, and it's a whole different world.
So they're still doing some- It's still undergoing some changing- can most definitely see the difference.
But you tell RD-NAME-2 to take you over there one day.
Y'all ride through.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
What was the experience on U Street?
That was one of the very first places I did research was U Street.
Mm-mm.
On U Street?
Mm-hm.
Do you remember-  Cause I've- I've never  quite got the story, and maybe you can give it to me.
After the riots, I know Ben's was one of the only places that didn't get  destroyed.
Do you remember that?
Mm-hm.
And what- Why?
Why do you think that was the case?
From your opinion or from what you saw?
Mm.
Let me ask you this, what do you feel like,    with so many  people- Or how do you feel that so many people  being forced out of their homes,  um-  In- in trying to clean up the city,  a lot of people are being forced out  um, because they can't afford to live in the city.
But the city is kind of getting this facelift, so  talk about how you feel about the city getting a facelift, but also people being forced out.
Cause it's like a good bad thing happening at the same time.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Especially like, you can see most definitely in- on the other side of the river.
And so now we're starting to see it in  the Northeast, Southeast.
And I don't know how that's gonna affect- Mm.
What do you- What do you think about the violence that's going on?
Like,  espe- I know,  um,  when I've talked to some people, they talk about the violence they see.
Do you feel like- And I know, RD-NAME-2 lives in DC,  do you feel like you see a lot of violence?
Or do you feel like,  he's in a lot of violence, do you worry about that?
Right.
Just young people.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
It's- it's-  I listened to some stories, so I was talking to some teens yesterday,  just to hear-  I can't imagine  you know-  I didn't grow up with a lot of money, but I can't imagine just  somebody just got murdered next door to me.
Like I can't imagine- Or while I'm walking down the street,  somebody on the other side of the street is getting shot or up-  you know,  beat up or actually-  It- it-  I c- It's just unfathomable to me.
Like I just like- Oh my goodness.
But this is their everyday experience.
And I just s- f-  get more- it takes-  It- I don't know.
Only by God's Grace cause I cannot-  I was just shaken up listening,  and I can only imagine like,  what it's like to live and walk in that hood.
You know, like, the-  the boy gets , so he got to watch his back as he's walking from the Metro  or from the bus.
And that's their reality.
Right.
But you don't know if you wanna get involved because you don't want them to  escalate it and hurt other people or do you- What do you do?
What do you sa- It's- It's tough.
It's- It's-  You know, I think it has to get a little darker before we see the dawn, but I just pray that we-  we get dawn.
Mm-hm.
Ceasing.
Yes.
Right.
Raise up.
That's the only way we gonna make it.
That's the only way we gonna make it.
I- It's- Mm.
So I'm'a ask you a couple more questions.
We gonna  end it on a lighter note.
Were you familiar with go go music?
A little bit, but you were- you were mostly-  You weren't real big into go go.
Uh-huh.
And  what about  um, mumbo sauce?
Do you eat a lot of mumbo sauce?
Now what is mumbo sauce to you?
Mm-hm.
Now did you have a favorite place that you went to get your mumbo sauce?
Oh where'd you get it from?
Mm-hm.
And what would you normally order?
The six piece wings with the mumbo sauce.
Did you do fries or fried rice?
Okay, I'm- This fried rice thing is kind of weird to me.
Chicken and mumbo sau- I- That's a little weird.
Um, have you ever been a tourist in your own town?
You know, like people  come from  all over the place to see the monuments and the museums, and it's right in your backyard.
Have you ever been a tourist in your own back yard?
Mm, the Castle.
Mm-hm.
I n- have yet to walk them.
Have you been to MLK since it's been opened?
No, no, the- it's- that's the- Oh my God.
It's-  I think personally, I  think that night time is the best.
There's a certain   just spirit and a certain tone and  just this feeling comes over you.
Like,  this is history remembered, what we've come through.
I- I went this- actually the same day,  I went in the day time, and it was awesome.
It was amazing.
But at night, there's some- And it wasn't a lot of people.
It was really quiet,  just very reverent, just kind of- and- I c- I just can't even explain- Yeah, I can't even explain it, and you read these quotes.
And it's like you can just hear his voice.
And you can just think about our people and how far we've come.
It's just a beautiful- So if you ever get a chance,  just-  just go down there and-  and even if you just go and- and sit, there's- there's a lot of little  benches and things  there.
you know, like you can sit along the little wall thing.
Just take a- some time, and just kind of breathe it in.
Especially think about the riots, and think about all the s- memories.
Like you were living it.
You lived this.
For me, it's just- I can only read about it and hear these stories.
But it just does something to me.
Something, like, it's something beautiful, something amazing, but something that makes you just wanna say, I got to  call to action and I can- You know, it didn't end with Martin Luther King.
You know, I have a responsibility.
And I think that's what I felt there.
I felt like I need to do what I gotta do, and that may be listening to people's stories and- and talking about people's experiences or  working with the kids or whatever it is, but I have to do something.
I have to be socially responsible like he was.
And that's what I feel there.
Um,  it's so wonderful.
They supposed to invoke all of that, bring that back to you.
And I think that um,  it would be great if you- if you had that s- experience, and just and kind of, what you feel when you go there.
And um,  do you feel like-  And my last one is  um,  Eastern Market.
I know you said you used to go there a lot.
Do you still go there now?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
If you could leave  one piece of advice-    It could be to  kids,  adults- It could be to anybody.
Whatever  message you could-  Based on your experiences and how you've lived and  the things you've seen,  what would that piece of advice be?
That is-  That is good advice because I think if we- If we adopted that principle, we'd have a much better world, but I think the problem is we don't- People think about themselves.
They don't think about each other.