How does it feel to be a- uh, Halloween baby?
Um, where were you born?
And what neighborhoods did you have- what neighborhoods do you claim?
And have you lived in DC all your life?
So no other places and you go to college in DC.
Where'd you go to high- or where'd you go to school?
And you're a student obviously.
What year are you?
What's your major?
Where were you- where was your father born?
What about mom?
What does your father do?
Hm!
What building?
New South?
Are you an RA?
Huh.
We'll talk about that.
We will!
Yes.
I love it.
Was your dad- I think I know your dad.
Has he- how long has he been working at Georgetown?
For several years.
Because I used to work in New South.
I used to work in the office with RD-NAME-3- Mm-hm.
I think I know your dad.
Oh this is crazy!
This is- this is crazy.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
That was really crazy.
And what does your mom do?
And what does she- like what is her function?
Hm.
Alright.
So  th- Wow.
This is a s- It's like a really small world.
Okay.
So before we get to- to college and dad and- and all of that,  kind of tell me a little bit about growing up.
Like your neighborhood, your house that you li- and then how'd you get to your new house?
So how many siblings do you have?
Okay, so you're in the middle.
How old is your little sister?
Oh!
Okay, there's a- there's some space.
Huh.
Are you guys really close?
Okay.
Did he live in the same house with you all?
Okay, so how did you- okay so going back to-  Let's go back to elementary school.
Talk about- you talked about your best friend lived over More behind the Safeway.
So how  how did you guys become friends?
Was it from school or was it because she lived behind the Safeway in the same neighborhood?
Did you have a favorite subject in school?
But you're doing  cognitive science?
Okay!
We're gonna- yeah let's skip over and then we'll come back to high school cause I know that's a big deal in DC.
Huh.
Okay.
Mm.
So-  so when you got to Georgetown did you-  is it-  is it something that you want to-  What do you want to do with that?
Is it some- because you want to study mental illnesses in- in mental health or is it kind of trying to understand these conditions more?
What i- Mm.
I'm sorry, and you have a transcription homework due tomorrow.
Good good.
Hm.
Glad we sent that email out.
Um,  so let's go back to high school for a minute because I know in DC h- like your high school is a really big part of-  for most people, high school is a big part of  your identity or like it's a big part.
So how'd you end up going to, um,  RD-SCHOOL-3.
I'm sorry.
What?
You didn't f- there weren't- How many black students were in your class?
Mm.
What do you mean?
You weren't that girl.
You were not that girl.
So  I didn't- Okay.
So tell me about- Okay, going back to public school, what do you mean- what was different from public school to private school?
Kind of for your- personal experience.
Mm.
So what happened- how did you- so what happened when you got to high school?
What was the racial makeup?
Mm.
What happened to your best friend in the neighborhood?
Did she-  was she still in public school or did she also go to private school?
Mm-hm.
Mm, the middle school?
I think I was thinking the high school but I- we did miss- we did miss some grades in there.
Wait a minute, I- I think I made her like, fifteen.
Tell me.
Mm-hm.
In the same neighborhood.
So how did you end up at Georgetown?
When you came in did you know- you knew that you wanted to study psychology,  cognitive science because of  the high school experience?
And so    okay so now you're studying- You're- you're declared- Well obviously cause you're a junior now.
So how'd you end up in linguistics?
Warms my heart.
I'm melting over here.
I'm melting.
Um, what has been your experience- And this is not on my little sheet, but what has been your experience with  AAE this semester, kind of thinking about the class and thinking about  kind of your own experiences and some of these kind of educational experiences that you've had?
Hm.
What spaces do you feel like you have the liberty t- to-  to-  to speak AAE?
Mm.
So let's talk about what you do on campus, um, like cause this is a really- Georgetown's a very interesting  place and space for so many reasons, right?
Everyone's doing something but I think  the level of diversity and how people are, you know, socioeconomic status, race, so many things make this place very interesting.
So  let's talk about your experience as an RA.
Is this your first year as an RA?
What dorm- what residence hall were you in last year?
Oh do you- did you request first year students?
No?
So talk about that.
That's a- that's a great reason.
Oh you're not gonna be an RA next year.
As an RA?
You don't get your own room?
Oh so it's Copley style.
I have- I haven't been in the new- in- in the buil- in the like living part.
Oh.
Mm.
Mkay.
I think residence life is really good.
Make sure you put that on your resume.
Um, those are a lot of transferable skills and I think, um, it's really interesting people don't think  that you learn- you learn how to manage a budget right?
You have your floor funds?
You guys still have to do that?
Yup.
To buy your cookie dough.
Um, and- and all those things that you learn and- and  the students reply- repl- rely on you.
Like they rely on you for the answers when they know the answer.
Like they just want you to say it to s- They do.
And validation.
Even though it's the same thing  they  just said five minutes ago.
Um,  do you- how do you think it'll be with upperclassmen?
Why does change make you so uncomfortable?
Does the beginning of semesters like  unnerve you sometime- like,  bother you when it's the new semester?
Hm.
Okay I'm gonna give you a tip.
Working with upperclassmen is different.
It's so funny our paths our very similar.
I worked with freshmen for two years and then my third year I wasn't a  senior.
I was a grad student at that point.
Um,  but I also had upperclassmen, and you do have to be more intentional.
And they'll need you but in different ways.
And, um,  but that's the really good- They don't- They're not as needy.
Yup.
Where- where did you live as a first year student?
Mm.
So what's after college?
Why?
What else do you do on campus?
So what does that entail?
Visions?
Why not?
It's only a couple more weeks right?
Where is it?
Mm.
Okay.
I'll come.
Let me know.
Give me the information.
Our- Visions was like one of the most memorable  things.
Um,    but it is a lot.
It- I wasn't on the committee but- But just a couple more weeks then it's over.
Yeah.
And people are not doing what they say they will do.
Okay.
When is it?
April- Oh last day of classes?
Are y'all taking busses again?
Or do they have busses?
Mm.
Okay.
Well I have my own car so but I'm just asking for the students.
Okay.
Um,  then my other question for you- So we're gonna move kind of off of that.
We're gonna  move on from that.
So tell me about-  Have you- Do you travel around DC a lot or do you seem to stay in Northwest?
When did you- when did you learn how to drive?
Oh like  like you're new.
Oh.
Oh well congratulations.
It's almost your one year anniversary.
So thinking about DC, um,  wow.
This feels like the city is kind of your- you're still- even in the city you are-  have only explored like  half of it.
So do you feel like a stranger in your own city?
Where d- What has been your dad's most-    What's been your dad's best story about the city?
It is a long street.
Mm-hm.
So you-  your dad's just this mystery man?
How do you th-  How do you think your dad defines success and then how do you define success?
Mm.
How do you think your mom defines success?
So how do you think your mom like- If you think about-  Okay l- so this is a-  it's kind of like a personal question.
You don't have to answer if you don't want, but like thinking about  middle class because when I- when I think about your parents are architects like, that's very middle class maybe even upper class America.
How do you feel like- do your parents feel like they're a part of the middle class?
But they- but your mom doesn't feel like she's made it.
Money.
Hm.
Does your dad buy like really nice things for your mom?
No?
Mm.
Is it reci- does she buy nice things for him?
They just have a-  Mm.
Hm.
Do you have a lot of family- do you have like family traditions?
No not everybody doesn't do that.
Thankfully.
Is she two days early or two days after?
Where- Do you always go to the same place?
Since you don't like change.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
And mom is cool with Cactus Cantina?
And your sister's probably cool with-  Capitol Grille,  Chipotle.
Okay.
And how did Dad feel about that?
He was like, mm?
So how do you feel- th- has that like, you know, cause thinking about Georgetown right and thinking about the socioeconomic climate here right?
Th-  that we have so many students in the top one percent and we have more students in the top one percent than we do in the- the bottom half right?
How does-  where do you- Not necessarily where do you see yourself but how does that feel like on this kind of campus and- So  thinking about-  Let's look at DC for a minute.
Um,  talking about rich people  and talking about kind of the city and looking at the landscape of the city-  I mean you're  like twelve but um,  have you noticed the city changing?
What do you- how- what have you noticed?
Hm.
What about your neighborhood now?
Who- what's the demographic makeup of your current neighborhood?
Oh and has it always been like- Mm.
Do you see that changing in a few years?
Like as- So let's talk about a couple of DC cultural things, um, and interesting we talked about kind of music today in class but let's talk about  go go music.
Were you a big- I don't-  I don't know if I see you as a- a go goer.
Oh.
Tell me about that.
Mm.
I feel like you're an old soul in this little  young body here.
Yeah.
I feel like you're maybe like,  Lisa May and you're about eighty seven years old.
With the little bun.
I just want you to have a string of pearls, and maybe like your little church hat.
Mm-hm.
Really?
Really?
Why?
Why do you th-  I mean well it-  I mean and I don't know if you know the answer cause if you knew the answer then you'd have a best friend, but  can you think- can you point to maybe one or two factors that-  Is it  just  you can't find the right group, you can't find- or is it-  Do you feel like it's you?
Is it them?
Mm-hm.
What does it mean to be black enough?
I think this is just absolute  fascinating actually.
No, and I- and I say that in- in all honesty, no jesting,  because I-  The concept of not being  black enough, right?
We- we've talked about kind of what it means to talk white and we're gonna talk more about that kind of this idea of like speaking while black and-  and what does that mean and- and these concepts of,    um,  all the consequences of being a black person and  some of the social consequences, um, and thinking about like, the Trayvon Martin case and- and Rachel Jeantel.
Like, she was- she was too black.
Right?
And so-  and so the social consequences of not being black enough  in a place where  embracing blackness  when the black community is small, right?
So when you embrace some bit of blackness,  why is that not accepted?
Mm, that would be interesting for you to write about this in one of your reflections  if it fits with one of the readings in- in kind of this idea of- this notion of does not being black enough mean being white though?
Or acting white?
So how you feel like BS- do you feel like your au- your interactions with BSA are authentic?
Like with the people with BSA is it a- like are they authentic interactions?
No keep going.
Are there other students from D-  DC  that you know coming into Georgetown?
Were you not close at- I mean not because y'all are just from DC y'all should be automatic friends.
Mm-hm.
So she's a-  she's displaying a very different kind of identity as well.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Are you involved in like any other social groups like sororities or?
Besides Res Life, BSA?
I mean that's a lot actually.
Residence Life takes a lot of time.
And you're tryna graduate.
How are your grades?
Pretty good?
They're fine.
Well you're doing well in my class so that's really all that matters for me.
I'm selfish.
Um,  so what about thinking about,  um,  so you like Chuck Brown and you're like a eighty two- eighty seven year old woman inside deep down.
Um, mumbo sauce?
So we just gonna take her word for it.