Alright.
So,  your name is RD-NAME-4.
Um,  what's your birthday?
What year?
Nineteen eighty seven.
Um,  what's your home town?
What neighborhood?
Uptown.
What is Uptown?
Like- Descri- Cause I- I keep people- hearing people say it, but I don't like, know .
Mm-hm.
Up Georgie Avenue.
Like, close to Howard?
So-  but there are other places included in Uptown.
So like, Columbia Heights is Uptown?
Oh, okay.
So I'm'a put Uptown.
And you've lived here all your life?
Where'd else did you live?
What part of Maryland?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Um,  education.
But you went to the- the city, and then did you go college?
Where'd you go to college?
Oh!
You really are like a hometown girl.
And your current occupation?
Um,  what about your parents?
Where was your mom born?
And what about your dad?
In South Carolina.
What does your mom do?
Hm.
I'm so sorry.
Oh!
And what about your dad?
And do you know what he does?
Mm.
?
Alright.
So,  now we got all the basic, kind of just like  information there.
Alright, so now we're going to get into questions about you.
Just the little background information.
Um, so where do you currently live?
Uptown?
No.
Okay.
Oh.
Are you- Northeast or Southeast?
You live Southeast.
What- Is it a neighborhood specifically?
Does it have a name?
I've heard- Okay.
Me neither.
I'm not even from DC so- Mm-hm.
So um, but-  You were very quick to say you're not from Southeast.
Why?
What- Like what?
Like, because I really don't- Can you give me an example, like talk about your neighborhood- And it was more- Mm-hm.
So you used to live in a row house, but now you live in apartment?
Mkay.
And we talk about the people.
What's different about the people?
They wretched.
Give me-  Okay.
Wait a minute.
See-  The Southeast mental- Or the Southeast .
How long have you lived in Southeast?
Oh you just moved over here.
From  Uptown.
Okay, how long did you live in Uptown?
Oh, so that was like your childhood home.
Okay so let's go back then for a minute.
Let's talk about your childhood and like, growing up in that neighborhood.
Cause I think that's always- DC is not what it-  DC is now- is not what DC was.
So E- And you've been in the same house for a long time before you moved out.
So tell me a little bit about  what you remember about your neighborhood as a child.
Mm-hm.
Keep your head back for me.
Your good.
And what?
What is that close by?
Like- Oh, okay.
Okay.
So,  close to RD-WORK-3.
Mm-hm.
Cause I know we get- But RD-SCHOOL-1- RD-SCHOOL-2 made me realize where you were now.Okay, now I'm- I know-  Got- Kind of have my bearings.
Okay.
And everybody rode bikes.
Did you ride bikes?
Mm.
Did you  um,  were you an only child?
You had siblings?
Did you all play together or were you uh- the age differences-?
Oh, okay.
And that's your younger or older brother?
Okay that's your younger brother.
And how old is- How old is he?
So he's what?
Two years younger- three years younger than you.
So did you all play together or you all had different groups of friends?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So, what did you all do as kids?
Like in a neighborhood, you were at the playground.
What'd you all do?
Like what kind of games- What did you- Hm.
And- Hold on, I'm gonna pause for one second.
Your collar.
Okay.
So I'm sorry.
You rode bikes,  um, and you all walked around.
Just up and down the street?
Okay.
Like, what's in different neighborhoods?
I never heard it called that.
What's fifty two hundred?
Okay, so these are neighborhood, like- In the neighborhood.
Diff- Okay, so these like turfs kind of.
Okay.
So we had T-Mob, fifty two hundred, what else?
Why does that sound familiar ?
I think somebody else was telling me about that.
Was- Now,  were these-  certain people could go on certain streets?
Was it like,  gang- I won't say gang, but was it like, most definitely this is my turf, you can't come over here.
When you say it got violent, like- Ah, okay.
Okay, so like what was- like what was it-  What- What caused the violence?
Was it drugs, was it just like, this my neighborhood, like what- what was the- Mm, and so now,  think- Okay, let's fast forward, and I want you to think about your neighborhood when you were there  um- So that was as a kid.
Did you see- did you realize like it was violent and all that as a-  as like, a little person?
You did?
And then as you got older, and you were kind of, you know- Some of your friends may have been doing some of this, or you like saw like, your neighborhood people- You were more aware of like- What was- Because of what was going on.
So it was like,  violence.
Violence like stabbing, shooting- Recently?
Oh, three years ago.
So do you see a difference between-  because I know like- You know, we talk about the ratchet in Sa- Southeast,  and but Uptown is supposed to be this whole thing.
It's supposed to be all- Yes.
Hoity toity.
But are you seeing some of the same things  that you saw in Uptown- some of the same violence.
Are you seeing that in Southeast?
Or do you feel like it was worse in Uptown or-?
It's worse.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Do you feel like- Okay.
So I don't want to like, dwell on this, but I think it's really interesting cause I haven't heard a lot of people talk about that- Like lived  you know, they'll talk about oh everything was perfect, but outside of like, what you see on TV for DC.
You see, you know, you hear about ,and then the last two years I've been here as an adult,  like violence and things that happened,  um, and you're talking about some of this live stuff.
Do you feel like  um,  the city is unsafe?
Or do you feel like it's a relatively safe city, there are just certain parts.
Why?
Why do you believe that?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Do you feel like-  Do you see  in the last  ten, fifteen years, do you see the city has like really really changed a whole lot?
Or do you feel like it's still the same, just  dealing with the same kind of problems  um, just people are getting more mature and really starting to care about themselves or do you see like  the city itself has changed?
Hm.
They're moving out of the city?
Yeah, I know like, PG is the new  Ward Nine.
Like- Black people are getting kicked out.
I mean- Right.
And so people are displaced.
Um, and I think-  What I've seen,  and it's so interesting like, being able to talk to somebody who's been here.
Like,  cause I've only been here a couple years as an adult.
As a college student, I- you know, you don't pay attention.
You live in your little bubble.
You doing what you do and that's it.
But as an adult,  and then working um, like um, in this neighborhood,  it's very very interesting to see like, how the neighborhood has shifted.
Like with the building of those new apartments,  Now they're starting to like tear this area down.
Like gentrification is really changing- Why?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I think  like, looking at  Clubhouse Six,   it's a lot  more diversity there.
I think especially as Columbia Heights is changing, you see a lot more um,    Latinos coming into the Club, and in that community, but you see a lot of-  I won't- Like not necessarily old money like they're not rich rich, but they're like  middle class, upper middle class  and-  But they've been in this community all their lives.
They've been- RD-WORK-4 has been a part of their community so they- Their kids go- They went there.
Their kids go there.
You know, um,  whereas here, it's the same kind of thing, but it's still like, the socioeconomic status really hasn't shifted.
Like it's still mostly  working class, maybe lower middle class,  but for the most part, it's still like the same neighborhood kids, their families  from back then, and now- You know.
And they'll kids will come here in twenty years.
So, it's- Hopefully if we're still here in twenty years.
Amen.
Amen.
Um, so,  what high school did you go to?
Mm, Mkay.
So you one of the people that sm- So, okay.
How as that experience first of all, being a person that moved all around?
Cause you know, high school's a big deal.
Mm-hm.
So how did you go to a Southeast elementary school but you lived in Uptown?
That's how the- Just how the school was- Oh.
Oh your mom?
Okay.
Mm.
So what's the Maryland lifestyle?
Like, what made it so d- Cause that seems like it's just down the street.
Like how?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
And so, what- Okay.
Describe a typical day like in high school.
Like, what it was- Like when you walked in or- On- One Eight Seven?
Or- It's- Mm.
Dangerous Minds.
Oh that's not the one you were- Lean on Me?
Mm.
So, Uptown- Okay.
So, Uptown is only talking about Northwest, right?
And then,  the rest n- the other- Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
And then Southeast is  across the river.
Mm-hm.
Third World?
You gonna be sad- Why?
That's gonna take the last bit of chocolate out of Chocolate City?
I know, we like swirl right now.
We just a little- Mm.
Just a drizzle.
Mm, we like the little fudge on a sundae?
On the ice cream su- Little bit of- Not a lot- not the extra fudge.
Okay, let's go back to the girl gangs at Eastern.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
So- So you just kind of navigated through all of those.
And what is- Okay.
U- Not that you were in the gang, but like that you knew about the gangs, like what did you have to do- You know, how did you get in?
I- Obviously you can't get out, so how did you get in?
Like what-  what was the privilege of being in the gang?
Mm, like fam- Okay.
Hm.
So,  was there ever a time- Especially because your high school was doing a lot-  Was there ever a time you felt like just-  Not even unsafe, but you felt like scared for your life.
You were like, oh my God.
Something's gonna happen, and I'm'a get caught up.
Oh that was what?
Two thousand two?
I think.
Mm-hm.
That was my s- second year in college.
I remember that.
And I had just come from that Home Depot, you know the one?
Was it um,    not Ty- Is it Tyson's Corner?
Not Tyson's Corner, but- The other place.
Mm-hm.
But I had just went to that Home Depot a couple days before.
Over Alexan- Not Alexan- Um, Fairfax Way.
Okay.
Mm.
Mkay.
I- Yes.
Most- Most DCers- Like Virginia is another world.
Even though it's right across- It's another world.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Different.
So when you- Okay.
When you think about DC,  does all of DC-  Do all four  quadrants  and all eight wards, does that all make up DC?
Um, and then when you think about DMV, where does that- Where do those boundaries kind of stop?
Cause people talk about the area- You just from DC.
And that's what a DC person would say.
A D- A person from Maryland be like, no, I'm from the area.
I'm from the DMV.
You can tell.
You can always tell if somebody's from DC.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The ar-  But DC people don't say that.
Ever.
Mm.
`  So you had the Maryland Mikes.
What was the D- Like, the DC guys?
Di- Do they have a name like,  were they- You know, cause they were tougher or- It was just the dudes.
Mkay.
Alright, so, what made you- Okay.
So let's transition from high school and the  gangs.
So when you- Oh.
One other question.
When you went to Roosevelt,  did you only go to the night class there or did you just transfer totally to Roosevelt?
And then you went to Eastern in the day time.
Wow .
Uh, how was that?
That's what I thought.
If you were- And you went to Eastern f- They closed- Yeah they closed.
Cause we used to um- Only reason I know MacFarland is because when I worked at Six, we did a- We did a middle school program there, and like our kids traveled, and they came over to the Club and stuff like that.
Mm-hm.
But they- I think they closed what?
A year and a half ago.
It's recent.
In the last couple years, they closed.
Um, So  wait.
I'm still confused.
How did you get to Eastern and your brother was at Roosevelt?
So you all moved, and then you all moved back to Uptown?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Now I got you.
Now that makes sense.
Mm-hm.
So high school hadn't- So, by the time you all moved back and got settled, that's how he ended up going to Roosevelt.
But you had already been to Eastern.
Mm.
He Northwest all the way.
That neighborhood.
Okay.
Okay.
Yes ma'am.
I mean, well he love his neighborhood.
And his neighborhood love him.
Was he in a gang?
Mm.
How was-  Well- Yeah I guess you don't get out.
Yeah, you don't really.
Well, I think you have to grow out of these things.
There is something that comes and- But it could go either way right?
Either you go and you have this experience, like you know what, I need to stop getting into trouble or you go and it makes you harder.
Like, look they didn't do nothing to me, so I'm'a keep- you know what I mean?
Like it's- i- Either you gonna really  go on the straight and narrow afterwards  or you just going buck wild and be like what?
Okay.
And- and what is a hood ninja?
Mm-mm.
Mkay, so I got you.
I got you.
Okay, little hood-  I'm not e-  You know, I appreciate that.
I might have to adopt that if you don't mind.
Great, thank you.
I might e- I might- I might run off.
Uh, okay.
So how did you end up going to RD-SCHOOL-3?
Hm.
Mm.
How was that experience?
And it's- it's- Do you feel like it's a different world?
Like, cause it's in the middle of like- Cause it's by- You went to the Van Ness like  right off Van- mm-hm.
Um,  but it's kind of like this concrete jungle kind of thing.
Like, it's this big- In the middle of just everything.
Mm-hm.
I don't think I did- I may have and not even known I s- saw it.
Mm-hm.
?
At RD-SCHOOL-2 or RD-SCHOOL-1  or at RD-SCHOOL-3?
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Okay.
So you didn't know him in high school.
Okay.
But he knew your brother.
Got you.
And  um, so what did you do?
Like, what did you major in?
Mm-hm.
And now you not doing that at all.
But on- Okay.
Not currently.
No.
Mm-mm.
But what do you ultimately do then, if you want to use that like-  What's your ultimate goal?
Mm.
And that's a big- Yeah.
It's a big deal.
Mm.
Yeah.
Mkay.
So don't give up because  just as it's just like him, I think it's you know, four or five more  that still need somebody to be the voice, you know what I mean?
That are still in that age- that- that age where they can change, and  they wanna change.
Cause after a point,  you have to want it, and when you get older I think it's harder to want it.
Mm, and- but it's real life.
Mm.
And he doesn't want to leave.
Mm-hm.
See?
That might be a good- Just a fresh start.
Do you think-  thinking about like, race.
Cause I think  race is a big deal in this city- Just like we were joking about Chocolate City.
Do you think  the racial relations in this city are good,  they're not so good.
Do you think there's still racism like, overtly?
You know, how do you feel  about blacks in this city  um,  and their rac- their relationship with whites,  their relationships with other races, other ethnicities.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Do you see that in your daily interactions  or- But just in certain things like,  kind of-  Well gentrification we see it in the neighborhood- People moving out.
Um, but like, if you go to Walmart, or if you go to Safeway, you're not gonna feel  like you being watched or- Hm.
We still got a ways to go.
But I think it- I- I agree.
Like, it is very diverse.
That's the one thing- Mm-hm.
You can l-  do- Like eighth street- If you just go down, you can  get Ethiopian food.
You can get Japanese- I mean like, you can go down eighth street and have almost like fifteen countries.
Mm.
What was it- Mm.
Yeah.
What is your favorite or where are some of your favorite um, hang out spots?
Like what?
Like where do you- Like, okay.
It's the weekend, where do you go?
What'd you do for the fourth of July?
Which is totally not  DC at all.
Mm-hm.
So you decided to- to leave out.
But if you're going out with your girls, where do y'all go?
Like if you're just having a girl's night  or you know, you're hanging out- And do what?
Um,  okay.
So I know you s- You a DC native so you can tell me about this, go go.
I- I didn't know anything about go go until I came- That is like  one of the most popular ones in fact.
Where?
I do.
Mm-hm.
So tell me about go go.
Like, your experience, do you remember your f- like,  first go go?
Or?
Okay, well I'm not gonna go there.
Where do you think it like-  What   makes it so  addictive?
Like, what makes it like-  You know?
Cause when you listen to it, it just kind of like, your body just starts to move.
I- Is it the co- It's the- Mm.
I understand.
Mm-hm.
Why?
Mm-hm.
Art- Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Don't come over.
And they do a lot- Like they just kind of  throw that stuff in.
Like, cause they do a lot- I- They- They do a lot of covers, but they do some original stuff, and a lot of that has like  undertones about like, their neighborhoods and- and I know they do like a lot of shoutouts or what do they- They don't call them shoutouts.
What do they call them?
I know.
Put you on.
That's the o- Mm-hm.
Like when they,  like, oh I see you whatever whatever.
Throw it up, whatever.
Yup.
What's bounce beat?
Mm,  so you lose some of the kind of- I don't know.
Oh, so it's kind of like a  fabrica- It ain't real, like it's just we- we made it on this little- And we pushing a preset button.
I'm- So do you feel like it like, provoked people to like-  Besides even the lyrics and stuff, but just the atmosphere, do you feel like that- And that pushed people to like fight and- Cause I remember- I've been to a couple.
They were, you know- It was chill.
It was  No, I went to um,  I think one was What.
What band.
Oh, okay.
And then, I did go-  Did I see Backyard?
I feel like I've seen them.
Northeast Oh then okay yes.
I'm the older crowd.
All the B's.
Oh, no, I'm not- mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
Mkay.
Wow.
Um, do you feel like there are other things that are- Cause  like you said, go go is very unique to DC, are there other things that are unique to DC that like  you say.
You know, if I went to  even Maryland- Maybe not so much Maryland or Virginia but  like North Carolina or California, I would not see this.
What's some other things that are like unique to DC?
What?
You know we had- we had a- Okay, that's what you call her.
We had one of those, but- Mm-hm.
When I went to FBR one day, I was on some street,  and the ice cream truck  was selling- I- I don't know what they were selling.
I did not stop, but I saw people coming from the ice cream truck with lots of things that were not ice cream.
Mm.
Okay, yes.
That may be a   you know, it's a  business.
Portable.
Anything else?
One RD-NAME-3 told me was mumbo sauce, like that's a- I've grown to like it.
It's a little sweet though.
I have to kind of temper it down.
Mm.
It wasn't consistent?
Like it was mumbo sauce geographic  discrimination here?
Yes!
That's the thing- you got to find the right mix, so with the s- too sweet ones, I add hot sauce.
Mm-hm.
Me too.
Okay so, no.
Anything else?
Obviously mumbo sauce is not one of your favorites.
One other thing.
The red lipstick.
What's-  That's a big deal.
I mean  like I don't see that as much  like when I travel,  but when I'm in DC- You don't?
The white looking-  What's the most ratchet thing you think you've seen?
Cause I know you-  you- I always have to go to you for my little source of ratchetness  What's a- what's a pretty ratchet  thing you've seen in DC that you were like, really people?
Let's get it together.
Give me two or three.
Mm.
Mkay, I hoped they worked  through some things.
Um, That's pretty ratchet.
But let's take it on the flip side.
What do you think has been one of the like coolest,  most amazing things that you've seen in DC that makes it different from other places?
You know what I mean?
Because like, each city has it's own personality.
It's own pulse.
It's own heartbeat.
Like, what do you feel like has been something j- just amazing  that you don't think you would have seen somewhere else?
Really?
Hm.
Yup.
That's the one thing, I remember-  It's so funny when you say the- the monuments and stuff cause I remember every time I would go home  and come back like for school,  I would always  get a window seat so I could fly- When I flew into DC I could see the monu- I just thought it was beautiful cause no other place where you fly in and see that skyline.
Like nowhere.
Um, I just thought it was the most beautiful th- Like every time, I don't care how many times I did it- I was always in awe.
Like, always.
I remember like I used to go jogging at  the Washington Monument.
Because there's no other- Where else am I gonna go jogging with Lincoln and Washington?
You know what I mean?
Hm.
But now DC is like Yeah.
You're like, not really.