And where were you born?
And  what neighborhood did you grow up in or that you claim is your neighborhood?
Okay so let's talk about that part.
Mm-hm.
And then did you come into the District at that point?
And where did you go to school?
Whatever you'd like to tell me.
And what's your current occupation?
And is that under like,  law?
I'm assuming since you went to law school.
Okay.
Um, what about your parents, where were they born?
And what did your parents do?
Or what do they do?
Still at RD-SCHOOL-2.
So I'm gonna put all my papers away.
No no no no no no no.
No no no no no no.
No, so anything that- like I said, anything that idi- Yup.
So like, let's say if you give a name,  um, we can  redact all that out or we just won't use that story.
Yup.
So- and if at any point there's anything- at the end we'll also go back if you said something that you wanted taken out,  we'll do that as well.
Oh no no no no.
M- totally understand that.
Um, so let's kind of start at the beginning.
Um,  I know you said you started out in PG.
So you were born in DC, and then, um,  how were you-  how did you guys get back to PG?
So were your parents living in P- Okay.
Oh okay, okay.
So tell me about your neighborhood growing up, what you remember.
In Adelphi.
Okay so let's Hyattsville then, we don't have to- there's no need- Was that because it was off the beaten path or just- Mm, mm-hm.
Mm.
So you stayed there until you were fourteen?
And so before we move on to  when you came into DC, tell me about  um, elementary s- cause you were elementary and middle school in PG?
Were they  like,  memorable years?
Were they kind of just  run of the mill?
Oh, okay.
And at the Montessori school was it- it- was it mixed or was it- Right.
Gotcha.
Mm-hm.
What?
So I wanna ask you about that, but I wanna go back  before I ask you about  about the teasing  How was-  you said your third grade teacher was your favorite, like,  what- who was it or- Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So you had her all first, kindergarten, first, second- or first, sec- Gotcha, okay.
So they kind of followed you along the pa- I mean well it's a small school.
And now going back t- Now going back to  the whole being teased, cause I thought it was really cute how you were describing it.
Why were you teased?
Or what do you feel like-  when you- like, what did you write about, yeah.
And you got in.
How- how big is the gap between you and your brother?
Mm.
Cause I have a older brother, we're seven- I mean uh, yeah, we're seven years apart.
But it was enough  of a gap that he did his own things  and then  he left the house and I was still in school so  it felt- but you are like, really only child yeah, like- So let's talk about family a little bit, and not necessarily just your brother but like you said your families are close knit, is your f- your-  your core unit of family, are you close knit?
Do you guys have traditions?
I understand that, I'm very much like the adopted family cause I don't-  I don't have anybody here, I moved here.
Um, but I have a lot of adopted family that I'm very close- so I'm closer here than I you know to real family who I see like  once every couple years.
So l- So let's talk about  this  move that you said was  drastically different.
Went from I guess it was  middle school-ish when you moved to DC  proper, when you moved to the city.
So  what happened- what caused y'all to move to the city, and then how was that like, the first couple years what you remember maybe school or the neighborhood.
Sixteenth Street?
It wasn't just hanging on the stoop.
No, it- it- n-  Don't feel like you- I'm looking for one particular thing, it really is about the stories.
Um,  so tell me a little bit about  high school.
Cause you were in high school-  wait,  we missed middle school.
That's the- okay.
And how big was RD-SCHOOL-2?
Like- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Did you feel like Uh-huh.
Do you feel like  you had a good experience though?
Did you enjoy your high school experience?
Or not.
The little side eye kind of made me- Mm.
Mm.
Hm.
Right.
So let me ask you two questions based on what you were just saying.
One- the second one,  which I'll ask, but we can put it on the back burner.
Swimming, I wanna hear about that.
Um- But just because you said it was funny.
And then the other one is church, cause I know that's a big part.
And like you just- you've  said over and over that that's been a big part of your  activities, so what like- what did your church mean to you um, to your family?
Are you actively involved in church now like- Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Mm.
So tell me about the- No you don't.
You really don't.
So- uh-  Um,  so I'm gonna talk about going to RD-SCHOOL-3 in a moment but let me- let's go back to the swim te- cause I told you I was gonna come back to it, mm-hm.
I'm sorry that it was embarrassing but it was a great story.
Thank you for that.
That was- no, that was- So,   now let's go to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Uh,  now that we've graduated from high school, got over the swimming thing.
So I don't think you went to RD-SCHOOL-3 with a swimming scholarship from the sounds of it.
So how do we end up at RD-SCHOOL-3?
What was your first choice?
Mm.
Did you graduate as a communications major?
Oh okay.
Um,  were you involved in anything in college like  majorly?
Besides your academics.
And so then how did you get to law school?
Did you go to law school right after?
Mm.
Think there were black people there.
So how'd you end up- How'd you end up in your job?
Mm-hm.
So let's switch gears totally.
Um, So these questions are not gonna be chronologi- they're just gonna be kind of random.
One of the things is  people come from all over the country to come tour DC and see all the monuments and all of these museums and things.
Have you been a tourist in your own back yard?
Do you have a favorite?
Kind of Thriller-esque.
It's one of my favorites.
Mm-hm.
Exactly.
Um,  so- Understandable.
Um,  have you noticed  the changing in DC?
Have you seen the neighborhoods change?
And what are your-  well some people are like, Don't feel like it's changed.
So, tha- I- it's always I don't wanna presume that you  do.
Is that a good- Mm go ahead.
I think when- when they said that to me it was more so  I guess maybe how they felt about it, not that they didn't notice but they didn't feel- like it wasn't something that affected them.
Personally.
That was the question I was gonna ask you was your thoughts on that.
So the other question I have that's totally- this is not related to anything actually,  how did you meet RD-NAME-3?
Mm.
Right.
What's your favorite book or movie and why?
Maybe your last one then, let's say what's the last one you watched and tell me a little bit about it.
Mm-hm.
Is it good?
I've been wanting to see it.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Mm.
Have you seen War Room?
That's like the-  think it's like a Christian movie like  they-  something about prayer  and like testimony like they have this whole  situation like  their marriage is on the rocks or something, I haven't seen it.
Some couple in the mo- I don't know- I don't- it's not like a well known- They're like- they're kind of- So,    last two couple of things before-  Um,  unique to DC-  there are a few things that are unique to DC.
Go go music.
Do you have any feeling?
Can you talk about it?
Do you have any experiences with it?
N- but I know Junk Yard.
What about mumbo sauce?
Describe it.
It's very much unique to DC.
I didn't- well I  knew because I didn't know what it was.
What about the carry out?
Okay.
Can you describe a carry- like, do you go in?
Do you order?
Do you  sit and eat there?
Well not at three in the morning, I don't know.
It is.
Mm-hm.
It's your one stop shop.
It's like Walmart of food.
Um,  if you could leave one piece of advice, what would it be?
To-  to anybody.
Young people.
Old people.
You never know.