Alright.
If you could say your name please.
Could you spell your last name?
Alright.
And can you give me your birthday please?
What year?
What year?
I need the year.
Okay, well how old are you?
It's  so, six in one, half a dozen in the other   Um,  where were you born?
Um,  what neighborhood did you grow up in?
Um, besides Valdosta,  did you live anywhere else?
Anytime.
Where- where else have you lived?
Mm-hm.
Anywhere else?
Anywhere else?
That's it?
Okay.
And where'd you go to school?
Mm-hm.
Which- which high school?
And  where'd you go to college?
Mm-mm.
Did you start at RD-SCHOOL-4?
What school did you start at?
RD-SCHOOL-7?
And where's that- Oh, that's when you lived in Melbourne?
And what's your current occupation?
Where do you teach?
And where do you- I'm sorry, where do you educate?
What do you  educate  the children in, at Valdosta High School?
You educate them in Valdosta?
I no,  what do you- what subject?
Where was your father born?
What about your mom?
Hm.
So do you know what your dad did for a doz- do you know what your dad does for a living, or did for a living?
And what about your mom?
What did she- What did she-  what did she do at the hospital?
And hospitality.
How long have we known each other?
Um.
Excellent.
Okay.
So I'm gonna stop typing now.
No.
I was not typing whatchu were saying.
I was answering the questions on my little form.
But now, I was engaging.
But now we're back- we're back.
Okay, so  you were born in Mia- I didn't know you were born in Miami actually.
I didn't know that.
When did you move?
How- Wait, how were you bor- I- I mean how were you born?
I mean I know how you were born.
Came through the vaginal canal, all that.
Maybe not.
In fact, were you C-section?
Oh.
that's right, Okay.
So you were born  in Miami.
And how did you- Huh?
Miam- How did you come back to Valdosta?
Or how- When- when did you come back to Valdosta?
Okay.
So what is the earliest- Okay, but you remember coming- when you came back.
You remember living-  Did you live next door?
When you came back?
I know, but when you were younger.
That's what I'm asking.
Okay, so when you first came back, when you were youn- I know, that's why I'm asking.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
You did live next- Okay.
So what's your earliest memory of gro- Okay so when you lived there-  Of growing up.
Just growing up.
In-  living next door cause it was- I remember,  when I came, but I was- you were much older when I  got here.
You were a teenager.
Plus.
Fourteen.
Okay when you grew up- Okay.
Why do you need to see the questions?
No, this is part of the questions you're just, you're answering- You're answering the way you want to answer.
So then I have to adapt.
Okay.
So growing up, what do you remember about the neighborhood?
When you were younger.
Mm-hm.
See-  There weren't a lot of kids?
Did you ride your bike?
Mm-mm.
Uh, Harvey's or Pick 'n Save?
So how'd you get the bike?
I know, but how- but did you ask for the bike or she just sent it to you?
Hm.
All this was all the same year?
Oh but just at different times.
Mkay so, you were the older sister.
Okay.
So, What does that mean?
What do you mean by that?
I mean you said- But I'm just trying to make sure I'm not assuming anything.
Mm.
So tell me about,  when you- Okay.
So you had the bike.
And then you  lost your bike.
Or you bent your bike.
Nobody in the neighborhood fix it for you?
Mm.
I mean I- I didn't know that story- I never knew about the bike.
I- It's not all about the bike, well I just- I never knew about  the bike.
Okay, so I remember- Did you often come- did you come visit us in Oklahoma a lot?
Mm.
You- you didn't like to be by yourself?
What does that-  Okay.
You had the- the spirits?
Were you scared?
Oh okay, so it was- So a little bit afraid?
A little bit afraid- Okay.
I don't.
That's why I'm trying to understand.
Like you've told me some stories, but I don't know a lot of stories.
About the- about- about the spirits?
Were you at our house?
Oh, was I born?
How old was I?
Had to be like maybe six, seven.
Eight?
Eh- if you just said ten and I said eight and you said younger than that.
So six.
Okay.
Uh.
Okay.
So tell us about- Okay, so tell me about s-  Going to school.
Really?
Were you always a good student?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Mm-hm.
Are you implying that someone in this room did not walk to school?
Really, something.
Ms.
RD-NAME-2.
She still living?
Oh.
Recent like, in the last few- Oh, okay.
And then- So that was third grade.
What about-  So- and,  RD-SCHOOL-3 used to be like  before it went to middle sch- cause it was middle school at one point.
That's what I mean, like f- It was fourth and fifth grade.
Before you moved over to s- Mm-hm.
So, but now it's back to like, up to fifth, three- Up to fifth grade or something like that.
So for you it was up to fifth grade?
Okay, so then when you left RD-SCHOOL-3 where'd you go?
Junior RD-SCHOOL-2 High School- So what was-  Did you-  Were you-  Did you have any fond memories of RD-SCHOOL-3 middle school, or  I'm sorry.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Junior High?
And that happened in the seventh grade?
I- I don't know.
No I don't.
But I don't, but that's why I'm inter- like, I don't know that.
Like I really don't, like, I'm asking like I And he told you don't cuss cause you a sci- a student athlete?
Okay.
What sports did you play?
Were you good?
Hm.
Mkay.
What was your favorite subject in high s- I mean, in- What was your favorite subject up to this point?
Is that how you started is that- Oh we know.
Oh lord.
You gonna be getting in enough fights.
Um, so,  the other question I wanna ask you is- Okay so, now we've  left middle school, did co- the- not the coach, the teacher had a really-  that  letter That he caught you- He- he was a coach?
Okay.
So he had a impact when he said that to you.
Just because he was a coach that meant- That made it different.
Because he knew how to talk to athletes?
Do you think that made it different.
Like as oppo- if he wasn't a coach that wouldn't have-  it wouldn't have mattered to y- Not mattered, but it wouldn't have had the same  it wouldn't have resonated with you the same way?
But I mean that- that whole moment about you're a student athlete.
You're- don't cuss this girl- don't  say cuss words or whatever.
I didn't know he was a coach.
I just-  It was a slip, but I didn't realize he was a coach.
Oh mm-hm.
We getting into some deep seated  issues.
So, going to high school, You went to RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
Yes.
Pride and power of South Georgia.
Love that.
Did they w-  did you get any state championships while you were in high school?
Oh.
Really?
Mm.
I didn't-  So how was the- At the The football team.
Yeah.
How was the atmosphere?
Was it?
Like was it exciting.
I mean when you were there, as a student.
Mm.
So high school's very different from like-  High school is a very different microcosm from the real world.
Like it was a very different- Mm.
What- mm-hm.
Intermingle?
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm, but that's- but you still talking about RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
But still very relevant because I think  it's interesting how you just made that connection right.
Because I think it shows-  thinking about how y- how you got into education, or how you- or even thinking about your own journey as a  educator.
Mm.
You have.
Mm.
It is.
I think when it's your Passion.
You follow the passion, not the paycheck.
I'm just listening.
Oh, sorry.
But it is.
It's very- it's very important to me.
But I think, also, because I love the classroom too.
And I think-  And I told you this before, I think my  joy of learning  came from you.
Like you were the-  Who did I see in my life that was a teacher?
But you were- w-  but-  what did you just say?
You've always, always been an educator, isn't that what you just said?
You've always been an educator.
And who did I- who did I see- But before I was in the- before I was in the school system.
Right.
But- but it was a different- it was a different kind of way.
I remember the day at s-  um, at RD-SCHOOL-4,  and I was sick.
And that was the only day  that they could do the test.
And I remember I was sick.
And that was the only day  and I'm like, we can't reschedule this?
I don't think I- I don't have to think about it.
I feel like I know why they gave me a hard time.
I mean, in my class  of what?
There were like ten of us?
In my class there were two black students.
I don't- I don't-  We're still in the very deep south.
We're still in the time when  racism is very much alive.
I don't feel like I need to think about- even-  even when I was very young, I don't- I don't know if I could necessarily articulate it in that way.
But I knew something was  different.
Right.
I didn't- Mr.- I had him for one class.
But I had her for- Because she was a year- I had her for two years.
Yep.
But we also had like breakfast and we- our class was real special.
But we also- She retired and came back.
That's how you do it.
Oh, who?
Mm.
Wow.
Oh we did.
Okay, so back to- back to high school- back to high- okay.
So, okay, so when you got to high school, did you play sports?
Did you maintain- Was it track and basketball as well?
Were you good?
How okay were you?
Mm.
Wow.
So you're- okay, so, before we- we gonna come back to that, but before you- your- you- before your-  you went to college on a basketball scholarship.
Okay, so we'll come back to that in a second.
Okay, how were you in track?
Do you still hold the school record?
I do.
Every time I go to the gym I always look at the thing and see if your name is still there.
It's on the-  I don't know if it's still up there, but it's on the board.
Up on the thing.
Mm-hm.
I was like, I know her.
I think governor.
Okay.
So, okay.
Um, so high school was pretty good.
I didn't know you didn't go to prom.
Go by yourself.
Okay so you got the scholarship to go to college.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Were you- were you the first one to go to college  in your family?
Like,  your immediate family, like in your household at that time.
And it wasn't a big deal?
Why not?
Hm.
So glad I asked it.
Hm.
And, But I remember we were working on a project.
I remember this project we were working on- well you were working on a project, but- but I was- You let me read it or something.
And you had to do your- like your-  your teaching statement.
And your, like  your  your pedagogical statement, or something.
Do you remember this?
Anyway, I remember you talking about always being,  the same thing you just said a few minutes ago about being an educator,  um, and that it's not-  and that-  not about-  about more than about teaching, but being an educator.
And making sure that a young- touching a young person's life.
And this stuff- Mm-hm I wish I could,  use it .
You typed it up and gave it to me.
It wasn't- This is like really before email was like a big thing.
So, I couldn't say I'll look up on my email and- and send it back to you.
But like I was here.
And I remember- the reason I rem- the reason this m- stands out to me is because  in two thousand  six,  I had to take a class.
I did, foundations of education.
And we had to write our teaching philosophy.
And so I remember, my- my- my portfolio was themed around Dr.
Seuss, but my teaching philosophy was about  the gift of education.
And I remember talking about you,  giving me that gift.
And exposing me to like, the  power of education.
Yes.
Exactly.
But- but it's those moments right?
When you're teaching.
And when you're- Right, but when other kids are just going to the park, or  going to get ice cream.
Those are moments,  like RD-NAME-3 was like  we went- we saw it on the big screen, no.
The big- n- the big TV.
The big, big TV, right?
So she didn't have the word for movie.
But she remembers about the cars and they were eating.
And  like so, that moment meant something,  you know.
And so those are the moments that you think about.
You go back, and I remember going to see Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and- I did because see it because we talked about Maggie.
We talked- I know we did.
I know we did.
Um,  but other- like those moments, those experiences.
RD-SCHOOL-4 we went to Steel Magnolias and we ate at Steel Magnolias.
And so, those are moments that you know, you realize that it's something that you- you, do.
It's not simply- it's not simply, oh I'm a teacher.
It's not wh- it's not simply just,  This is my profession though, this is my way of living this is- Cause even now you're still thinking about, well what can I do next year to make it better.
I know you are.
I know you are.
Cause I know- I know- I know what you're-  How you're wired.
So it's always about, how can I-  Even the night you were talking to me about, how can I teach them about,  um, was it grammar and- Hm.
Ooh.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
That's deep.
Mm.
Ntozake Shange.
For Colored Girls.
.
Mm.
Right, right.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
No.
That was- No.
What's my lesson plan?
I mean I feel like RD-NAME-2 and- RD-NAME-2 and I are similar sort of.
Do you feel like that's a quality that you would want him to praise?
Mm-hm.
Yes, damn straight.
Yes.
Yes, you have.
It- Yes it is true.
It's very true.
Um.
No.
Your- our time is not winding-up.
What I'm going to do, is we're going to pause one second, because I  think  I  think.