So  tell me about- we'll start there.
Tell me about,  um, when you were younger and maybe the first house you remember growing up in.
Mm-hm.
Oh, I forgot about Brookwood.
Um,  oh.
Click your f- don't- yeah, if you- no, no.
Keep it- But if you wanna do 'em- that- yep, cause it's on the cord, and your fingernail- Yep, your fingernail.
Um,  okay.
So  when you were- when you were born,  y'all had still lived in- then y'all moved over to Brookwood, right?
Or like, when you were younger.
Mm-hm.
Okay, so what do you remember-  tell me a story about, like, how you-  whatchu do remember when you were growing up.
So tell me either about- either the house you remember, or.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Let's see, so it was you-  how many- wait, let me b- how man siblings do you have?
You have five.
And at that time it was  you,  RD-NAME-2 and Cedric right?
Before it-  before y'all, and then  RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-3- RD-NAME-3 came- RD-NAME-3 was Claudia Circle.
Um.
And yeah.
Um, okay.
So tell me how- cause you were the baby for a while, cause there's a gap between you and RD-NAME-3 so tell me about being the baby.
Or when you lost your  position.
Yeah.
Then what is, um,  so then how- what's the difference between you and RD-NAME-3?
Mm-hm.
How- how far is their age difference?
Ah, okay.
I - I didn't know if it was a year or two.
Um,  okay.
So where'd you-  did you play outside a lot  or were you ?
Electronics.
So let's talk about school a little bit.
Where'd you- where'd you go to school?
Let's go back, we're going back to- let's go to kid school.
so.
And, so- Okay cause you- that's when you were over on that side, okay.
Hm.
When you say you had bad experiences, was it like, just the way the kids  treated you?
Was it the- Was RD-SCHOOL-2 built when you were was it RD-SCHOOL-2- did you go to RD-SCHOOL-2 or RD-SCHOOL-3?
Okay, oh let's go back- I didn't even know you went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
So tell me about- cause that's a very different kind of environment.
Hm.
Okay.
Take- take your time.
I do.
Yeah.
Hm.
Mm.
So,   what do you think- how do you think you could make-  cause you just said something about the- the schools and being different and  the different sides of town.
How do you think we could make that better?
Or has it changed even now or is it still the same?
Do you think it's about race?
Is it about money?
I mean, I know it's sides of town, and we know the sides of town are- but do you think it's more about race or more about money?
Mm-hm.
It's a little bit of both.
Tell me about  couple of things.
Tell me about when you discovered music.
When you discovered you were good at it.
Is this Mr.
RD-NAME-2?
Mr.
Mi- okay.
What'd you- where'd you take piano lessons?
RD-NAME-2, was it RD-NAME-4?
Mm-hm.
I took lessons with her too.
So why'd you play clarinet?
Cause your sister played it?
Ah, that makes sense.
Because the piano is just like the, um, vibraphone, yep.
Mm.
So talk about, um, some of your experiences in band.
Like some of the things you got to do because you were in the band.
Where'd you go?
What'd y'all go to New York City for?
Wow, the whole band?
To go, wow.
Spoiled.
Um, when was that?
So that's your first time going to New York?
Tell me about it.
Why?
What'd y'all do?
So tell me a little bit about the trip.
W- was it good?
Did y'all fly or take the train?
Ooh.
So you're not moving to New York, that's what you're telling me?
So let's back up, let's- so when- I think, well,  I will tell you when I think our relationship changed.
When do you think  we got close?
Yup.
So talk a little bit about it, like I know about it but can you tell me some stories about it.
Oh when the nurse came in?
Hm-mm, okay hold on.
Let the Lord lead us in that issue.
Um, apparently that is not  my ministry, but we gonna let the Lord see what He can do.
Um,  so tell me- okay,  because, like, someone else who is listening to this may not what it is, so tell me what it is.
And then you talked about the food bank,  maybe tell me some other things y'all did.
Mm-hm.
The compe- yeah.
The competition so each team had a different country.
But didn't y'all win?
Mm-hm I thought so.
Oh, the Coca Cola factory was the year y'all had to do the  Coca Cola project.
Do you remember?
It was a project cause Coca Cola was failing or something.
And y'all had to come up with like, a whole marketing plan.
And then present it to, um,  Miss RD-NAME-2 the judge-  I mean the attorney.
The jewelry lady-   but that's oh- cause that's when- I remember us going to Atlanta cause I wanted y'all to like, understand like, Coke.
And so then you had the whole project.
Cause my best friend did the project with us and she was in marketing.
She  did marketing,  and so the whole project was around marketing like, come up with a new slogan for Coke.
I don't remember who won that one.
But I do remember that- Mm-hm.
Hm.
Two things I'm gonna ask you about.
So we had the- remember we had the themes each year.
Um,    what was our- the one I wanted to ask you,  remember when you  played the piano and we made the whole song?
You- I think you were playing like, Fur Elise.
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Like that.
Um, Because RD-NAME-2 did- I did- didn't RD-NAME-2 do like, a rap?
In the- mm-hm.
Um, and then do you remember your name?
Wow.
From- so you're twenty-eight, so you had to be, what, fifteen, sixteen?
So that was like, twelve- wow.
That's a long time.
Wow.
Mm-hm.
Wow.
And that was what, three years of-  cause how- you did it for a long time but I don't think we started the notes until like, the second year.
Wow.
Hm.
RD-NAME-2 passed away.
And RD-NAME-2 got killed.
Mm.
Um, who else was in your group?
I could not remember her name.
I could not remember RD-NAME-4.
Yep, and that's- that's all I can think of.
I couldn't think of her real name.
I thought- I was like, all I can think of was Moo, and I was like, that is not that girl's name.
RD-NAME-1 was on TV.
Did you see it?
And you were like, I was in Girls of Grace with her.
So talk about-   because you have a- faith is really big in your life, so talk about kind of your church  experiences,  then and even now.
Like, what do you do with your church now.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Do you think- how- well let me ask you, how'd you get to New Harvest?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So why don't you start a Girls of Grace?
People always find a reason, and make some excuses.
Bianca.
Ah.
Okay, I was what,  four or five years older than you guys.
Like, it wasn't like I was  super understood all about youth ministry, but it was about making that connection.
Tell me a little bit of more about the job.
And then we gonna come back to the church cause I ain't forgot.
Then we'll come back.
Mm-hm.
So how is  that any different from what I did?
H- how is that any- when you guys needed hugs,  when we did our a little one-on-one session and we stayed up talking til four AM.
Like how is that any different from that?
It's not.
It's just we call it something different, right?
But everything that you just- is what I did for you girls.
When there was an issue, you guys called me at one o'clock in the morning, when there- you know, it was beyond that week in the summer, right?
Like, it was so much more than that, but that's exactly whatchu were doing for those young people.
And that's- it's- that's the same thing,  I had to get up early and do my Bible study so that I could be able to teach you guys like, right?
That's the same thing that you're doing for-  what you're doing- whatchu did at the job, also what you're doing for these young people.
Like, you're giving them a lifeline, you're making them- that's why I started Girls of Grace, is to get the  girls excited to come to church.
Right, and be- and know each other cause we were all in- and nobody seemed to really know each other.
Like the older children- like me, RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME1- like cause we all were cousins, and so like, we all knew each other cause my mom was the choir director.
But then after that group, like y'all's age, nobody really- and RD-NAME-3, like we were all in that group, but then nobody-  the- the next group, y'all didn't know each other so that was the whole point.
Was- I'm not gonna have y'all sitting in here on Sundays acting like y'all don't know each other, it's- it's not gonna happen.
And so that was the whole thing of making it about  community.
And to me, that's what you're trying to do.
We- it's no different.
I'm sorry, I just wanted to make sure you understood that it was, cause I think you miss it.
It's no different.
So,  this is one thing I've a- stop being afraid to succeed.
Stop being afraid of being amazing.
You're the only one standing in your way.
You're the- and I told you that  fifteen years ago.
And I'm telling you now, you're the only one standing in RD-NAME-8's way.
You're the only one.
And I think  you have so much to give.
And you can't be afraid to do that.
Like, you are one of the most  amazing, compassionate,  thoughtful,  people  that I know.
And I know I haven't chat with you as much, like as you've grown, but just seeing the things that you're doing and  I think at the-  at the essence of who people are, they don't change you they are, right.
Things happen to you and you can, you know, life will  change your path,  but the core of who you are?
An apple is still an apple everyday of the week.
A dog is a dog, right?
A zebra will have stripes everyday of the week, it might put on like a little- you might put something over it, but it will still have the stripes.
You can't change who you are, so stop being afraid to be wonderful.
You have- you have so much to share.
Um,   so when I talk to you again  you're gonna tell me that y'all started Girls of Grace at the- or you can call it whatever you wanna call it.
Um, with the kids I think- because I think ultimately it's about experience, right?
And doing new things and,  um, or even old things, like we went to the peach field.
But we went and it was hot, and we wanted to complain, but we had fun  doing- picking peaches.
That doesn't take a lot of money, that takes  five dollars to- for gas to ride down there.
Um,  so  that's what I think.
And what's that?
What do you want to do?
What is- what do you want to do?
Why did you say, it sounds crazy, when you said  whatchu wanted to do.
That doesn't sound crazy.
Sounds amazing.
Once again, stop- stop being in your own way.
Because think  all the things that you're trying to do, right, you- it's clear, like all of them have the same message.
You wanna   help people.
You wanna, you know, make people lives as  much- better as it- as you can, like whatchu, you know, you can only control whatchu can control.
Um,  and I think- I think it's part of-  and then the definition of success, I think that was really interesting what you said, you know, for you dad it was really about making money,  and then for your mom.
Our parents want us to be better than they were, right?
And because she didn't graduate from high school,  um, she wants  you- like the definition of success for her.
Like, these pieces of paper.
Um,  I have a lot of pieces of paper, doesn't mean I'm successful.
Um,  d- you know, cause definitions are gonna change,  and so what I want you to do  is  think about what defines success  for you.
And I get it, I totally get it, you- you know, you want your parents to be happy, all that.
I want my mom to be happy,  you know,  but at the end of the day  you're only going to be successful  when you define your success and you're working toward that.
And when you're really  like, living your best life.
In- in the path that you're like, this is where I feel good, right?
We talked about the mission trip, like that and- or doing mission work.
And so how'd you get into mission work, and then what do you have coming up that's exciting?
Mm.
What's your ultimate dream job?
You know there's money out there for that, right?
There is.
There's a lot of money, um, private and  government-  Mm,  goes with the government right now, but They were- Um, there is a lot of money out  there to do those types of things and get that support.
Especially, um, because the ROI is going to be high, right?
When you're saving someone's life,  there's money, you know, cause people want-  well you have to l- get like, the  s- humanitarian centers and things like that, but people  give money to help  do those types of things.
And so I think, ultimately,  when you decide  how you wanna succeed,  then  you can start looking for  things that help you get to that level of success.
When your definition of success is what is your definition of success,  and you're working and you're walking in  your light and your path,  there's money there, right.
And so all these things that you're doing now are just setting you up for that, setting you up for that, right?
Because now you're learning how to- like you're teaching these kids how to make money so they can go and have money in their pockets or give to their families.
What's something that like- that  at the end of the day, all of them will have old, ratty t-shirts, right, or old, ratty clothes.
Okay, so turn that into something that can be profitable.
You're giving those skills, right.
People with pay-  for like, work for- that's like you're teaching them kind of how to be entrepreneurs.
How to,  um, make money, say to stimulate the economy.
All those things are available to-   there i- there is money to help, so I mean you'll have to frame it differently, right?
Like you'll have to think about  how, you know, you have to say, what is this person want to hear for them to give me the money.
So they're- if this person's more interested in  me feeding the homeless, well part of my facility  will be, um,  you know, homeless outreach.
If this person's more interested in making sure that, you know, people have job skills, part of my facility will be  resume writing and interview skills, right.
And it could- all those things, it could be like you take one guy, you know, you take Bobby  and Bobby comes in.
Bobby's homeless, he doesn't have any food, you give him food, and-  and then he goes to workshops like, you know.
All those things could be housed under one thing, it's really just about how you're going to market  yourself and your ideas, so people will give you money.
Because it's not- these aren't thing that-  that are like, you're trying to, you know,  take this water bottle to Mars tomorrow.
Like these are things that are very tangible things that will be very helpful to the community, and I think you can do it.
Actually I- no, I know you can do it.
When- when you're ready to really get serious about it, let's have a conversation.
Um, and let's think about ways that we can get you, you know, you're a non-profit so you can do- you can get your five-o-one C three so you can get- apply for grants,  and- and start thinking about like, h-  like, what-  even to start small and then, you know, build up and build up.
How did you get into- one of the things- cause I know that food and like,  um,  fellowship around food is really important to you.
How did that come about, was it a family tradition or something that you, just?
Did she teach you how to cook?
Tell me about-  do you have like, a memory of like, when you first- or even one of your favorite times cooking with your mom?
How old were you when your mom got remarried?
Do you remember it?
Not really?
Do you have a close relationship with Mr.
RD-NAME-1?
Mm.
Um,  so  talk about-  how did you- mm.
Let me back up.
Thinking about kind of  being  like, the family dinners and things like that, how do you- do you think that made you guys stronger  as a family, or was it just something you had to do because your mom said we gonna do this?
Mm-hm.
So I'm gonna ask you a serious question, then I'm gonna ask you some-  couple of fun questions.
Was there ever a time  that you were like, oh my God I'm about to die?
This is it.
Like, something's gonna happen to me, I'm about to die.
Tell me about it.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Wow.