Alright  And whe- were you born in the area?
Where were you born?
And how old were you here- how old were you when you moved here then?
Okay.
Um  And, do you know how your family found their first home?
Or  when you moved here did- was it a family home?
Tell me about it.
As much you remember.
And tell me a little bit about your family, so your parents, were they born and raised in the area?
Okay.
Um, tell me about your mom.
What about your dad?
Do you remember your grandparents at all?
Was she born and raised in this area?
What do you remember about her?
What was your  best Sunday  memory?
Like if you can remember one particular Sunday, where y'all had dinner, y'all did something,  that really sticks out in your mind.
What happened that made it so fun, like  I know y'all were watching the football game.
What did y'all have for dinner?
What happened?
Were y'all joking on each other?
Alright.
So, have you always, I know you grew up  Or you have a house- your fam- another family home in Upper Marlboro, but you haven't grown up there, when did you guys move into that house?
Do you remember your really first, first time?
What do you mean?
Was it like  just by all the kids in the neighborhood?
Was it a white bus?
A black bus?
Was it  like  gangs, how was it divided?
What do you mean by, like, there was separate busses?
Get to school earlier?
Oh I see what you're saying, okay.
Um, do you feel like your neighborhood has changed a lot?
Like your,  the neighborhood, um  that you lived in when you were in middle school?
The one where you still go back to now?
Like what?
Mm-hm.
So,  are they developing your neighborhood?
I kno- I have been there a couple of times, but are they-  Are there any new houses, or that area being built, or is it pretty much stable, same?
But it's not as close knit?
Mm.
Now, your brother still lives in the- the house that you guys grew up in, right?
Okay.
So, tell me little bit about this block party, cause you said y'all get together  for, or once a year, y'all have the picnic  um, the cookout.
What happens?
And how does everybody get together?
What kind of music did they have?
Go go music?
Talk about go go, cause I know that's a big DC thing, that people always, you've introduced me to go go, you've gotten me to  start, maybe, sort of, liking,  loving go go a little a little bit.
What do you mean, due to the violence?
Tell me about one of your- a go go experience that like you just remember, good, bad or otherwise.
Like one of your most memorable.
You felt like you were famous?
Alright- did you dance?
Um, I know a word that y'all use talking about go go, it's- it's- what is it crank?
What does that mean?
Like explain to me- Would you say Luther Vandross cranks?
Whitney Houston Who else?
I know you like Mariah Carey, do you think she-  currently or her old stuff?
Or does she, has she, always been and will always crank?
What's your fondest memory of your mom singing?
What was she singing?
Do you remember?
Um,  I don't think you ever told me that, actually.
I don't think you ever told me that.
Um,  Do you get to see your family often?
What do you think keeps you guys from seeing each other  more than you do?
Mm.
So, everybody just went, and it was what it was, there was no drama?
It was just family fun?
And then that stopped after your grandmother died?
Mm.
So, you have family in South Carolina, too?
You have a lot of fa- like why did she move?
Was she ha- Did she have, like, kids or something there?
Okay.
Gotcha.
So let's talk a little bit about, going back you talked a little bit about-  your elementary, middle school.
What do you remember most about school?
It could be elementary school, middle school,  high school.
Did you have a favorite subject?
Did you hate school?
Did you love school?
What do you mean you had your own way of doin- like, give me an example.
Can you give me a good exa- what's your feel- I know you and your brothers jone a lot with each other.
Um,  like I hear you sometimes on the phone, or your cousin-  Give me your best line.
Or one that you feel, was like-  I got 'em.
Think about- So, if somebody call- said you got a big head,  and then you saw something on them, What's one  that you would use before- that you've used before?
So it's all love- it's no- Mm.
So, it was no- it ain't no like-  picking on each other or anything?
It's all in love.
Hm.
Alright.
So,  um,  you were joning on the kids at school.
What did y'all do, when y'all got out of school?
Like after school,  What's some things y'all did?
What kind of video games?
You were probably Nintendo.
Nintend- Super Nintendo Uh, What was it, Sega?
Oh you went way back.
Did you have the little ping pong game?
What's your favorite game?
If you weren't good in-  If you weren't good in Madden?
Were you the best?
That don't sound like- I don't like football, but basketball  alright.
You can teach me how to play  Do you ever play, um, 2K?
Oh.
But not as good as Madden?
That don't mean you don't know how to play.
You wouldn't even let me beat you?
One time?
Can I be- which team-  Can I be the Wizards?
Oh okay, that's cool.
Alright, well,  that's fine.
Um I'm sorry, what was that?
What was the quote?
So, we can-  make sure we have it  on tape.
So, we talked about sports.
Tell me abou- I know who your favorite-  basketball team.
But I want you to tell me a little bit abou- I want to hear about them in your own words.
I'm sorry.
Hm.
Shall we move on?
But they did get-  pretty- Okay, so Hm.
No,  not crying yet.
There- I-  may see a tear coming down.
It's okay.
Summer League starts  really soon.
We get to see some of the prospectives, right?
And some of the rookies.
Will Otto Porter be playing this summer?
And where did Otto Porter go to school?
Let's just say- Where did Otto Porter go to school?
Woop-Woo!
Go Hoyas!
Who else went to Georgetown?
Anybody in this room went to Georgetown?
Alright, well  Now, that we've talked about basketball, we'll move on.
Um, let's talk about your friends for a minute.
And things that you like to do around the city.
Um, do you have a particular group of friends that you hang out with?
Who?
Yeah, if you hanging out around the neighborhood, and then going out with your friends.
When was the last time you went to hang out in the neighborhood?
Oh.
So when you were younger, did you just hang out with the same groups of friends?
So, y'all had cookouts, y'all played Madden, did y'all do anything else?
Oh, y'all went out together?
So, like if you were in the neighborhood, do people just drop by to visit?
Or do y'all not do that as much?
And what do you guys do like on a typical-  let's just say you were around the neighborhood and it was like a Saturday,  maybe about  two, three, four o'clock in the afternoon,  how would that day look?
Like if y'all was getting together or whatever.
Mkay.
So, let me ask you a few other questions.
Um, cause I know that you are studying to be a chef.
Uh-  How did you choose that?
Like  why?
What do you think has been your best dish, that you've, in the last year?
What is a dish that you go out?
It is pretty good.
It's actually great.
What do you think has been a dish you've made it just didn't work?
Like you were like, dang, that- that was poor.
And it- wasn't-' Oh.
Well,  the soup that you made,  I love.
It's great.
Simple things,  um,  and the steak  bar none, like  excellent.
So, keep making those.
And I'll come order them at your restaurant, if you serve them.
Um,  so where do you work now?
Cool.
Um.
What do you wanna do- like, what's your long term goal?
If you could say, when I grow up, I want to do  this,  what is this?
But you don't wanna do anything, like there's no specific goals?
Like where?
Name like, your top two places.
So, if you could leave- let's say you had unlimited resources, and you could leave  tomorrow, where would the first stop be?
Here?
Amsterdam, why?
Okay, and then where would you go after Amsterdam?
Nowhere in the United States, you wanna go?
Personally, I would want to go to Vegas.
But, that's me.
I mean, sit me down at a poker table.
Before what season starts?
Oh when does football season start?
Hm.
If you pick the right- Are you gonna tell me who it is?
The Houston Texans?
Is that the one with the little orange and white?
No.
Oh, just kidding.
What color- are they-  Who is that?
You know I don't know football very well.
Oh.
Whose on the Houston Texans, that's like  a big name?
Have they been poor in the past?
Do they suck?
They just been  mediocre?
Okay.
So, you're a big football, basketball, fan.
Um,  my last  section on- on that is I know  I know you don't have any kids,  but you have one little kid,  who is  well, actually you have two kids that I've seen who are really, really attached to me-  I mean attached to you.
Um, tell me about them.
What do you think has been the  cutest moment that you've have seen from them?
Like something they've did,  or something they've done  that  you were like, oh, that is so cute.?
Oh they held each other's hands?
What's something they've done towards you, like  that was like, aw?
Alright.