Okay, and what's your birthday?
Oh.
Happy birthday, happy belated birthday.
And where were you born?
And what neighborhood do you claim?
Have you always lived in Petworth?
Where else have you lived?
What part?
Capitol Heights.
How long did you live there?
Mkay.
Are you in high school now?
You're a high school senior?
Oh my goodness.
My little Torch Club president.
So where are you going to school next year?
Look at you.
What do you wanna go to school for?
Aw.
Cause you're the little Torch Club president.
You're never gonna live that down, you know you're gonna be like fifty I'm'a be like, oh my little Torch Club, you know that right?
Okay, long as you know.
As long as you know, so.
Where else did you go, like where did you- um, where do you go to high school?
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Where'd you go to middle school?
Okay.
And elementary school?
Where was your dad born?
And your mom?
Oh, oh okay.
Okay.
And your little dog?
Washington DC.
What does your dad do?
What does he do for work?
Is he successful?
What kind of cleaning business?
Like, pressure washing?
Or like, going inside like,  h- like, house like house cleaning kind of thing.
Oh.
Okay.
What's the name of his business?
RD-NAME-3 RD-NAME-3.
Okay, and what does your mom do?
Alrighty.
So,  tell me a little bit about-    tell me a little bit about gro- So did you grow up in Capitol Heights or did you grow up in DC?
Okay so tell me how'd that work?
Mm-hm.
Like, when you say family, who- who lived in the city?
So how did y'all end up in- h- how'd you end up in Capitol Heights?
Okay.
Okay but then you move  back into DC.
Okay why'd y'all move back to DC?
So do you live with your grandmother now?
Mm-hm.
So you- your- you and your family live in your grandmother- in your family home But your grandmother has moved to like an assisted living home.
Oh okay, okay.
So,  talk about  the ch- like, talk about  where you played the most, like whichever neighborhood you remember.
Like, w- if you played outside, if you were in the house most.
Talk about- tell me about that.
What's Manhunt?
I have no clue.
Ex- explain to me how to play it.
So it's like hide and go seek but different.
So how many people could play at one time?
Wow.
So do you have a- you have a big family, clearly.
So how many sisters and brothers do you have?
Two sisters or a brother and sister?
Are you the baby?
Are you spoiled?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, that's a yes.
Okay.
I'm glad we got that cleared up.
Um,  so you have a lot of cousins and stuff?
And so when you played these games  did you- did you like, ride your bikes and stuff?
Okay.
So- okay so you played games with your little friends and your cousins.
Um, were you all like, the same age or were some of them older?
And they still played too?
Oh.
So-  okay, so let's talk about RD-SCHOOL-3 cause clearly  you went to that school.
Y- so you've  always known that school, you haven't known anything else.
So tell me a little bit about the school.
Do you like school?
What's your favorite subject?
Why?
Mm-hm.
So, let me ask you this then.
Do you think- um,  do you think-  When you hear these stories, how do-  how do you- how do they make you feel?
Like when you hear people's  different opinions,  what do you do with that?
So when people don't- Oh.
So wait wait wait wait wait wait wait.
So when people say something that doesn't make sense, do you try to  not necessarily correct them but do you try to like,  give them a different view point or just go with it?
So,  let's think about the last conversation you had with somebody that it just was like, you- what you saying doesn't-  you- this is crazy.
Tell me about that.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And what did your friend say?
Mm-hm.
So what happens when-  What happens when people don't see it your way?
Or don't even wanna listen to you?
Like they don't feel like you have something valid to say.
What do you do?
Hm.
Mm-hm, I do.
So let me ask you this.
Because you seem to be like a very  wise seventeen year old, like you  sound like you're like an old- an old man, y- you've probably gotten this before.
Yup.
Um,   So let's take a step back cause I'm'a ask you some more questions kind of about politics and- and- and life and stuff, but I wanna take a step back.
What was your favorite memory in elementary school?
Like your favorite moment, whether it was a silly moment or you got a special prize, or  you did something fun.
What was your- that  favorite moment?
Maybe at school, or even at- at home.
So you think that was kind of the moment that helped you get over your fears of ?
Was that important to you?
Why?
Did you like middle school?
Yes, but you gave me a face so.
So tell me what the face is about and then the yes.
Mm.
Yup.
So what happened in middle school that you feel like shaped who you are now?
Hm.
Did you do those things?
So how do you think you came out of that-  that moment, or that y- kind of that dark period?
What helped you come out of that period?
Mm.
What do you think helped build your confidence the most?
Mm.
Tell me- tell me about-  tell me about your fam-  tell me about each of those things actually,  like how you think they helped contribute to that.
Mm.
What do you think about-   What do you- Mm, let me ask you, I have two questions actually.
What's been your most fun memory  at the club?
Oh yay, so tell me- tell me how that happened.
Like, tell me  how'd you get in-  First of all tell me what is Torch Club, and like tell me how you got involved, why'd you wanna run for president?
Tell me that whole kind of- l- what led up to all that.
Did you win?
And so,  um,  how do you think-  When you talk about your friends, you also say that your friends were-  they helped build your confidence.
How do you think your friends helped build your confidence?
Do you think that, um-  So, mm, let me ask you this before I ask you that one, What has been your most favorite high school memory?
Tell me about it.
Mm.
Hm, your dad didn't go to college?
No.
But your dad's very successful?
So,  do you think-  This not even the question I wanted to ask you but it kind of came up.
Do you think that it takes going to college to be successful?
Mm.
So one thing you just said to me just resonated because, um, DC  has one of the lowest graduation rates in the country.
Um, especially if you're a black or brown boy, right?
Um, and you said that right before someone  graduates they either die or drop out.
Has there ever been a time you felt like you were gonna die?
Like something's gonna happen to you, or some- you  just felt like,  oh my god, this is it, my life is about to be over right now.
Mm.
Tell me.
Were you in this neighborhood?
Mm.
Do you think-  Are you afraid?
Why?
What makes you  so confident that you don't have to be afraid?
Do you think having money,  for people, do you think that changes  people's situation?
Like people who have money, have less troubles and people who  don't have money have more troubles?
Do you think-  do you think that's an issue in DC?
That class and money is an issue in DC?
Why'd you s- you said it very quickly, why?
Mm.
How do you classify yourself?
Do you classify yourself  working class, middle class?
Do you classify yourself as  having money, not having money?
How do you classify your family?
Do you feel like you've ever wanted for anything?
So you said you've grown up in DC around the area, um, have you noticed that it's changed?
Like,  what do you mean by that?
Is that good or bad?
Has your school changed because of-  have you seen your school change  because of  gentrification?
So how'd you end up going to that school?
So let me ask you a couple of other questions.
Um, what do you do for fun?
What's like your  hobby or  the thing that gets you really excited?
Tell me about law camp.
How'd you get- how'd you get involved?
And so she's like, you should go to this camp?
Um,  so how're you gonna decide which college you're gonna go to?
What're your top- what're your top three schools?
Mkay, so Hampton is the farthest away.
So you don't wanna go too far from home?
Why?
Let me ask you a couple of questions about- about the city and a few other questions.
Have you been a tourist in your own backyard?
Right, people come from all over the world to tour DC.
Have you- have you been a tourist in DC?
Why not?
Mm-hm.
So it's- you always see it.
What's your favorite-  two things, what's your favorite museum or monument?
How many times have you been?
What's your- Really?
What's your favorite part of it?
Do you think that- Um, what's your favorite- So you say you've been to the restaurants.
So we know about Ben's.
What's your favorite restaurant in DC?
Me  I love Ted's.
It's not my favorite but I love Ted's.
Why do you like Ted's?
Yup.
What's your favorite meal?
Do you like their pop tarts?
Me too.
Yes.
I love the pop tarts.
Um,  okay so let me ask you two more questions about DC and then I want you to do something for me.
Do you like go go music?
It's okay, tell me why is it okay.
Okay what's your preference?
Nineties like Tupac, Biggie?
Who's your favorite artist?
Oh Biggie then Tupac.
Oh okay.
Favorite song?
I'm just gonna let you- Favorite song.
I'm not even gonna say a by, you can tell me.
Yes, it was all a dream.
Mm.
You didn't know I knew that.
Mm.
It's the struggle.
That's right.
Mm.
Mm.
What about  mumbo sauce?
Oh, okay let's talk about mumbo sauce.
Now what's the right way, do you get it on your chicken or do you get it in the bag?
It's okay, me too, I don't li- I like it  on the side.
Cause I can make my-  I can decide how much I want.
I don't want my chicken all soggy.
You wanna eat it late.
That's right.
So describe mumbo sauce for me.
And where do you get it?
Is that the only place you can get it?
Was it good?
Okay.
Sometimes, mm.
Suspect.
Oh, her little-  Maggie's mumbo sauce.
How do you spell it?
Okay.