So tell me a little bit about  your neighborhood growing up.
And,  um, so that was the Second and T, and then  how long did you stay there before you moved over to t- Tacoma Park?
Was there any reason that you guys moved?
Was that neighborhood just as warm and inviting as the-  the Second and T Street?
And so you said, all the houses, they were detached, so- Are you an only child?
Okay.
Younger or older?
Okay.
So did you do a lot of stuff with your younger sister or?
Because she was a girl.
Why did y'all go to different schools?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So let's go back to elementary school for a minute.
So you guys- Which elementary school did you go to?
RD-SCHOOL-2.
And how was that experience?
So that's- Okay, so  that's a interesting point you brought up, and I was-  I was listening to your older recording,  and you talked about when you first kind of interacted with white people I think it was when you- from- at Langley.
At RD-SCHOOL-2, okay.
And-  and so talk about that experience and then, and then kind of this idea of going to this  desegregated school and how that was different from  your segregated school and that experience because  now, you know, I- I've never been to a- a segregated school,  um, and so that's a very different thing for me.
Mm.
So  moving from  the RD-SCHOOL-4  is most definitely predominantly white, um, and I  thought something  even in  nineteen- what was this, nineteen sixty six?
Um, sixty eight some- Six.
And you said,  I realized that we were all friends  when we were at school but it was very different when we left school.
And that just really like- that hit me like a ton of bricks.
Um, describe what it was like at school and then what did that mean to you- what- why- what made you say that statement when you left-  when- when three o'clock- when the bell rang?
Hm.
Did you ever talk to your sister about her  high s- I mean I'm sure you did- but about her high school, and did you kind of see her high school experience  as very different from your high school experience?
Hm.