Where do you currently live now?
Oh, okay.
What's  changed around your neighborhoods  what's- is- what y'all- is your neighborhood changed  from when you grew up?
From when you grew up, your neighborhood, has it changed?
Is that the norm?
What's wrong with Southeast?
Is it?
How did that- does that  like  how does that translate like, what traits  that you learned from growing up around your neighborhood  and it's carried you over now,  that you  would never- that you would pass on to your kids or you'll p- you know what I mean?
Okay.
Awesome.
So,  if you had to say something about to the kids like if it was a little kid,  you know,  listening right now, what would you-  what advice would you  give that child?
Speaking of education, how  did you  go to college?
Did you- If- if you don't mind, what do you mean stupid reasons?
And all along you did?
All along you was good.
Mm-hm.
Man we've all been there.
Yeah.
But um, let me aks you this,  is, um,   I know you- uh, just looking at how you dress, you're a sports fan.
Who is your favorite teams?
Who's your favorite out the box like if you had to do your t- who's your top three?
Your top three teams in the area n- you don't care what the other teams is doing they- if they're in the finals and you have to be there and only pick these three teams are there,  and they're in a championship situation  which one would you wanna go celebrate with?
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Well,  um,  the Redskins, wow.
No I just- No cause I'm- I- I'm a Cowboys fan.
Yeah.
No I'm a Cowboys fan, man, I don't even you- normally I fake like, oh yeah I'm a Redskins- no I just can't stand 'em.
So we got that out the way.
Well, uh, tell me about,  you know, have you ever been to the games did you go to the games or you- what type of fan are you?
Are you like a real fan?
And is that-  DC United ga- oh the soccer team.
Ah, okay.
When the last time this area- DC's had any championships?
No.
No sir I ain't trying to be funny sir I'm just- I'm just saying just like what have y'all- like, what have y'all done like- like what would make me- No sir.
Right.
Let me aks you this, um,  like,  what have y'all won in this area?
You know what like- what-  what is-  like g- you don't- do you have any memories of  winning anythingin this area?
Oh that's the only memory I thought you had more.
I don't- I- I'm- I'm not-I'm- I'm not doing an interview sir.
But, um,  yeah so you- I see you a passionate fan.
What do you normally do?
You don't- do you go to the games?
Or you- you just sit here?
You at your house?
Which is a nice house.
Mm-hm.
>laugh> Ah, that's funny.
So I see that you are a passionate fan so let me leave that alone.
But I will share with you this, I do like the, um,  Washington Wizards.
I will sh- w- so we do have that in common.
And what's KD?
Alright.
So the Wizards, like what is wrong with the Wizards, do you think it's the  tea- the team, do you think it's the coach, think it's the general manager, think it's a collective of things?
Like what's going on with the Washington Wizards?
That superstar.
Do I know anybody there?
Uh, I can't confirm nor deny.
I've never um- That's what's up.
Well this has been a very interesting interview I appreciate you taking the time out.
So what a- what about, um,  know, like, are y'all-  is your family- as you was speaking about your family, y'all still  real close?
Y'all still like- like you say every Sunday or something like get together?