Let me aks you another question.
Now what- how has DC changed since you  grown up,  over the years?
When you say you had to learn on your own, what do you mean by that?
Okay, well that's good.
What um-  what's your occupation?
Your master's in what?
Oh, awesome.
When you were talking about kids like,  and being as though you that you have kids,  what do you do with your kids?
Like what do your kids do after school?
Yep, mm-hm.
Did you um-  What was your first job?
Awesome.
Okay.
Um,  I have another question for you.
What did you learn from your neighborhood  growing up?
To protect yourself?
What do you mean?
If you was to go um,  to like a movie theater  in DC, where would you go?
What's the name of the movie theater?
Oh Georgetown movie theater?
How often have you visited National Mall?
You said it.
Where do you go to see the fireworks?
Fourth of July.
On July fourth.
You can see everything  from there?
Mm-hm.
The people um- is there a group of people that you hang around with?
You don't have any like, real close friends?
Do they ever like, come around and visit?
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Well let me see if have anything else, you've been awesome so far and I appreciate your time.
Um,  let's see and make sure I covered everything.
Yep.
Oh.
One more thing.
Any special words  give me some s- DC words that are pecifically Southeast DC words- Give me word- just give me- no just give me words that- that- that-  that just from DC just g- in- even now,  even- about, you know,  no matter how far back you go with the words.
With they used to say compared to what they say now, how people talk now.
Do you think DC like has they own language like do you think-  like,  could you recogni- could you know if you talking to someone if they're from DC or not?
If they say they're from DC you could tell that?
You think you sound like you from the South?
Okay.
How- how many kids do you have?
What are their names?
How long did you live in DC?
Ninety-six?
And you stay in DC currently now?
Mm okay.
You like it  better than Maryland?
Ah, okay.
School systems in DC?
Wow.
Okay well,  you have been awesome,  and I appreciate you, and thank you.