Perfect.
And what's your birthday?
And where do you consider your home town?
Where were you born?
Um, and then when'd you move to DC?
Or, move to the area?
Mm.
And what neighborhoods do you claim,  not just currently but  around the area?
You don't live far from here.
Like down the street.
Okay.
I didn't-  I knew you said you lived in Northea- I didn't even make that connection.
Alright so where'd you go to school?
Mm.
Mm-hm.
And what's your current occupation?
And what about your parents?
Where was your dad and- your mom and dad born?
Okay, I have no clue where that is.
What'd your parents do?
So  let's start from the beginning.
You said you  came here when you were about  three or so.
And you were in Northeast.
Um, how did you guys start out in Northeast and then move to Maryland?
So tell me a little about your neighborhood in Forestville growing up.
Was it a lot of kids?
Did you live in a townhouse?
Apartment?
Were you an only child?
So tell me about growing up  as a middle child, and then talk a little bit about your brothers.
What was your favorite?
So  how did your- did you guys move here because your dad was in the military?
So tell me about  um-  okay so your mom worked for DCPS, and so you were-  well you were kind of in and out of  the school system, or in DC and in- in um, Forestville.
So tell me about elementary school.
Like-  Mm-hm.
Mm.
Did you have a favorite subject- I mean I know you were still young, but did you have a class or a teacher that you were like,  I really like them.
I can see why.
So how- okay, so we went-  then the next school, you went to RD-SCHOOL-4.
How was middle school?
Cause I know that's a weird time for- Mm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So how did you-  how d- how did you fare in high school then?
Like how was high school for you?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
So how did-  how did you end up at RD-SCHOOL-2?
So let's talk about-    cause I do wanna get to  kind of where you are currently in your ministry.
But let's talk about- so,  you went-  at that- after you left RD-SCHOOL-2, what happened?
Were you- Mm-hm.
And so then  um-  How long have you been married?
Okay, so we're at the point where you almost met your wife now?
So how'd that happen?
Oh.
And I didn't know that.
When'd you move to DC?
So two questions.
My first one is  how-  how were you led to Northeast versus Southeast, Northwest, Southwest?
And then how did you end up at  RD-WORK-4?
Cause there's other community centers, and so those two things.
Mm-hm.
Down the street.
Mm-hm.
How'd you end up inside RD-WORK-5?
So  I'm gonna  kind of shift gears a little bit.
Um,  when you think about DC,  after much  anguish and  heartache and  finally you broke down, and God was like, move, and you were like, okay God, I'm moving.
Have you-  so let's talk about your experience in DC.
Have you been a tourist in your town?
You know people come from all over the world and all over the country to come see the monuments and do all this touristy stuff and you're down the street.
Go at night.
It's so much better at night.
I pro- It's lit up, but there's just this kind of  awe  and this  like, reverence of like, knowing you're in greatness  but thinking about the struggle- It's just- The reflective moment, it was just- I can't- And I went the same day.
I went in the daytime and at night on the very same day.
The- I don't know how that happened.
And I felt totally different when I went back that night than I did in the day.
Um, so most definitely take some time, even if you're not- well, maybe now it's cold.
But you know how you have community group?
That could be a great like reflective time um, just to change it up, but it's getting a little- It's like fifty- It's getting a little brisk being out there.
I don't know.
We might have to wait til spring to do that one.
Um, so what about-  what about um-  I know y- okay.
This is what I think is really interesting, and this is what I was telling RD-NAME-2 is um,    I love the fact that you  didn't come in and say, we need to build this big building.
But we gonna just meet the people where they are, and we're gonna take 'em where God sees fit.
And you go out and do street ministry- can you think of some-  some times- some- some stories- some interesting moments that you've had kind of being out in the community?
Good, bad, otherwise.
Mm, mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Okay, I know we have um,  just a little more time so  couple other thing.
There are two things that are very unique to DC.
Well, there's a couple things, but two things.
Go go music.
What does that mean to you?
Do you like it?
Do you not like it?
Well now that you're a pescatarian, I don't know if this one is  as much relevant, but what about mumbo sauce?
Hm.
Alright.
Last thing.
What's your favorite book?
Last question before I ask you to do one more favor for me.
If you had to leave a piece of advice to  people today, not even just youth.
I would just say youth, but to people today, what would that piece of advice be and why?
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.