Mm.
That's a lot of moving around, especially when you have small kids.
That's right.
That's great.
How um,  you know,  you said that she showed up  at the school where you guys were  so that the helicopter must have gone back  and gotten her.
How did it-  how did it get back and get her- I mean, just in a wheelchair it seems like it would be so hard?
Right.
And when the helicopters came, how did they-  how did they pick you up?
Like,  were there baskets or?
You just had to climb in?
Mm-hm.
Oh I'm sure.
And then you would stay in the basket until you- Was anybody afraid to- Really?
Right.
And she wasn't afraid?
She was only seven.
Yeah.
Do they ever talk about- do your children ever talk about what they remember then?
Mm-hm.
That's really nice.
You know just that they remember.
What's the matter?
Thought that he was just funny.
It's kind of romantic.
So I'm tryna think- Um,  since you've- you've been here  for  quite awhile now, you know, how have you-  you know, what changes have you seen in Princeville,  you know, since before the flood and  before that and  and then since?
Mm-hm.
That's great.
If um-  if someone asks you just  how would you describe Princeville?
To them.
You know, if someone who had never heard of it-  You know, not like us cause we obviously know the town.
But if someone walked in, how would you describe the town to somebody?
Mkay.
Mm-hm.
That's pretty- I'm just like, oh, Rocky Mount.
It's great.
Um,  are there  any kinds of things in particular you know, that your kids enjoy doing that Princeville-  you know, or do they play any sports or are there any groups that they're involved with  in town like children's kinds of things.
What kinds of things do they- Oh is there an active Boys and Girls Club here?
What kind of stuff  do they do  with those groups?
That's nice.
Are there- are they-  are they big groups of kids or?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
They do all kinds of stuff.
Do you ever do any of that stuff with them or do you kind of take that as your opportunity to like,  send them to do something with other people?
Cause you get to spend-  Is she very social?
Mm.
I bet that's cool.
You must be glad.
Mm-hm.
Especially having a child that likes school, you know, just cross your fingers that it keeps going.
Do you have any hobbies or groups that you're involved with, things that you like to doing?
You know, other than raising your children, which you spend I'm sure s-  tons of time doing.
Are there any things in particular that you enjoy doing?
Mm-hm.
Are there  you know, any organizations or any groups or you just kind of help people if you- Well great.
Mm-hm.
Well I think there's a whole lot more to being a house wife when you're raising two kids than just saying you're just a house wife.
You're raising children s- kind of a big responsibility.
I mean, is there anything that could possibly be more important?
Um,  you-  you know, since you moved here relatively as an adult, what do you think is um,  different here  than the other places that you've lived?
Cause you know you were  an adult before you were in Princeville.
Like what kinds of things can you remember  that- do you think makes it different from those places?
It's kind of in the middle then between- Pine Top then Halifax, hm?
Just getting ready- I didn't realize that I had another body behind me.
I didn't even see Ryan from around the corner.
Really?