So we're gonna go ahead and start.
I'm'a just ask you some few questions, and then I'm'a ask you  some other questions.
Um, first of all, can you just say your name and the date?
It is the seventh of July.
Um,  when were you born?
And  where'd you grow up?
In Kenilworth?
Alright.
Um, and so you've lived in DC all your life?
Okay.
Um, and now you are going to what school?
Cause I always mess it up.
RD-SCHOOL-2, cause I always say Liberty, don't I?
I don't know why I do that.
And where is RD-SCHOOL-2?
It's in Pennsylvania?
And what do you wanna do?
How'd you get interested in that?
You didn't-  Uh- and uh- that's why I always see you talking.
Um, and  um, were your parents both born here?
in DC?
Um, and then what's your mom do?
Mm-hm.
Really?
I did not know that.
My daughter has special needs.
So what do they do there?
Is it like a day camp kind of thing or do they stay there?
How d- does it- Oh, what ages?
You don't- Up to- Like is it adults too?
Oh like, subset seventeen, eighteen?
Oh like twelve, thirteen.
Gotcha.
Okay.
And- Oh, in they  life or whatever the case may be.
Or do they live there after like once they go there?
Oh.
Oh okay.
Oh, okay.
I'm'a- I'm'a close the refrigerator cause it's- it's starting to make a whole lot of noise.
Um,  and then the other piece is, what is your  um- what does your dad do?
That's all you- Mkay.
Well that's all we'll go with.
Um,  and then the other thing I wanted to ask you about it is,  are you excited about leaving DC?
Why?
Why not?
something different So, how long have you lived in Kenilworth?
Oh you l- Okay, where'd you live before then?
Do you remember?
In South- And Kenilworth is Northeast- Kenilworth is like, over the bridge right over the highway?
Oh, okay.
Um,  tell me about your- your house, your apartment.
Oh, good.
How big is it?
Is it just you and your mom?
Do you have siblings?
I did not- That's why you like to talk cause you don't- you don't have nobody talk to at home!
So it's just you and your mom.
Wow .
Okay.
Um, tell me about your neighborhood.
Are you really close to people in your neighborhood?
Is it a small neighborhood, big neighborhood?
So, Um- For the community?
Oh okay.
So how- And so what do you do?
Like what's your role, like you get the youth involved or-?
What- Okay.
So two things.
What is like-  I don't r- I've heard of RD-WORK-3, um,  just because like, RD-NAME-3's told me you've mentioned it.
RD-NAME-3's mentioned it, but what is it ex-  um, specifically?
Like, what is it?
A program,  or what do you do?
Mm-hm.
So you actually work.
You get money.
Oh, okay.
So why does- Okay.
So what's the difference between SYEP and- and um- RD-SCHOOL-3?
Gotcha.
Okay, and is it like- So you can be any age or is it just teenagers?
It's just teenagers.
So you work for RD-WORK-4 through RD-WORK-3?
Or do you- So you don't do SYB?
Okay.
So how did you come to the RD-WORK-4 then?
Right.
Oh like with different organizations?
Oh okay.
So after you do the interviews, it doesn't even matter if you like  didn't do well or what- They're gonna place you where they want you to be.
Okay.
Oh.
Okay.
And do they give you feedback, like oh, this is what you did well at this place.
This is what you need to improve on.
They- they don't give you anything, oh.
Oh.
It's like, yeah come here, or don't come here.
Oh, okay.
And so you've been work- How many years have you been doing summer work with RD-WORK-3 at the RD-WORK-4?
This is your fourth year.
So you started as a Freshman.
Oh.
And then,  how long did you go to the club before you were working at the club?
You've been at the RD-WORK-4 for that long?
I don't believe that.
So you know all the old- Yeah, so you know everybod- Like- You have a lot of history.
Um,  what was your favorite memory at RD-WORK-4?
Really?
Why?
Why?
Um,  I've only been there one time,  but it's absolutely beautiful.
Because it was scary- It's in the middle of the woods, it is kind of scary.
How many years did you go to Camp Brown?
Oh, just two years.
Oh cause you have to be older to go.
And then they closed and all that stuff.
Alright.
So,  um,  are you close  with your grandparents?
Your- Are they your mom's parents?
What's your- your- Your grandmother.
Does she live in the city too?
Oh.
Oh.
Do you go visit her often?
Or does she come here often?
Oh, when is your birthday?
Mm-hm.
So she come- Y'all have like a little party?
But now you're gonna be  in Pennsylvania.
You coming home for your birthday?
You plan to come home a lot?
Don't do that.
Don't do that.
Like, you wi- the first-, but the first- No.
That's what the whole experience is about, getting away.
The first- maybe the first month or two you'll come home, but trust me.
After you get that freedom, and you have new friends, you're not gonna want to come home.
Trust me.
That's how college is.
Like you-  first like, ah, I'm so scared.
I want to go see all my friends.
But all your friends are doing other stuff too.
So, okay.
So since we gonna talk about college, let's talk about high school a little bit.
What high school did you go to?
RD-SCHOOL-2.
In Southeast?
No, where's RD-SCHOOL-2?
Northeast- Oh, like right over- Oh.
Hm.
I'm not from DC.
Yes, okay.
Um,  did you like it?
So  I know in DC one of the big things is like, what high school you went to.
Like, why is it that such a big deal about like, what high school you went- oh, like I go to this high school, I went to this high school.
People l- I was somewhere yesterday,  and the guy was like,  yeah, I went to high- And he- this guy's like forty five.
He's like, yeah, I went to Largo, like  or  this other guy's like, I went to Ballou, like why do people  identify with what high school you went to?
Do people- Like, if you go to a different high school, does it make a difference if you from one versus the other, like- But like I'm saying, so if you- Okay, you go to RD-SCHOOL-2, do y'all have beef with like other- schools?
Why?
Oh you all have like, battles?
RD-SCHOOL-2?
Are you in a band?
What did you- What other activities did you do in school?
Oh, what did you do for track?
Oh, okay.
I did  field- I did track and field like  three days and then I quit.
I was- It was- It was a bad situation.
We won't talk about that.
Uh- Are you going to do it in college?
Did you get a sport's scholarship?
Did you get any scholarships?
Oh good.
Oh, so now you're just trying to get extra spending money.
Oh for more- ships That's true.
Cause some people paying all of it out of their pocket.
Um,  what else did you do in high school?
Were you really- Did you have like a favorite subject?
Did you like school?
Did you hate school?
Why?
Why you didn't like Math?
Um, did you have to have a certain GPA to play?
Did you have a two point oh?
Oh good!
Okay.
Alright.
Amen.
Um, and you said Science was your favorite.
Any particular type of science or just science in general?
Like what?
What was your favorite thing y'all did?
What was your favorite one?
Do you help them here when they do like STEAM or stuff?
STEAM.
No, you don't do any of that?
You just sit at the front desk?
with Miss RD-NAME-3 Mm-hm.
And RD-NAME-3?
Okay.
So you like to do the administrative-  you like to keep the Club running?
Is that your job for the summer, is like administrative stuff?
Oh, okay.
So you can't go like, do stuff with the kids.
Do you go on- Do you go on field trips?
Some of 'em?
What- Are you going on the college tour?
No, cause you're already going to college.
I mean, whatchu you need to go on a college tour.
Um, so you said you're a only- you're a only child.
Do you have any other family that's close?
That you're close to?
Is she here?
How many do you have?
Ah.
And what do you all- Do you all do anything like big- You have family reunions or family dinners?
How often?
Oh.
Oh like holidays.
Oh.
Um,  do they all come here or do you go there?
Where's she live?
I don't- Like- Northeast?
Now you know I'm not from DC, so you got to kind of explain stuff to me Oh when you leave?
So, do you still live in Kenilworth now?
But she's moving out of Kenilworth.
Okay, where is she moving to?
With your aunt.
Or in the same neighborhood.
So you can be close.
Okay.
Oh, cool.
Now,  um,  do you go to like any- do you do church?
Do you go to church?
Which church you go to?
Oh, oh yes.
I've been there couple of times.
Oh you do- Okay, so you go to the- the church that uses the building Gotcha.
Okay.
Um, do you like it?
How long you been going there?
As long as you can remember?
Is it big?
Does that mean it's a lot of- a lot of members?
So y'all gon- Are you all building a church, or y'all just gonna stay renting that church?
Mm-hm.
It's right off of four ninety five, right?
It's right off the beltway.
I think that's the one I went to.
Anyway.
It's really big.
Yeah.
I think that's the one I went to.
Like it's like a big complex kind of thing.
What's MERGE?
I- Mm-mm.
I have never heard of that.
Mm, mkay.
So,  speaking of go go,  cause that is a very DC thing.
Like before I came here to college, I had never heard of a go go.
I was like, what?
And when I was in college, I hated it.
I was like, this music is getting on my nerves.
Now I kind of like it.
Um,  are you a go go fan?
Really?
What's your favorite type of music then?
But isn't a lot of go go- Don't they do a lot of covers of R and B songs?
The congos, and all that?
Yeah.
So you like R and B.
Do you do a lot of parties and stuff?
Do you go out a lot?
Like where?
What's that?
How old- how old you have to be to go there?
Oh.
And who?
Ibiza, what's that?
Where is that?
Mm-hm.
Um,  how do you say- was it  quarter?
Is it over there by that area?
Yeah, cause we had um, we had a Club over there at one point.
Clubhouse Two.
Miss Whitney used to work there  before she came here.
And then, what was that?
Two summers ago?
Three years ago?
Remember when David left here for the summer.
That's where he was working.
Um,  who do you hang out with?
Who are your friends?
Why you don't-  cause y'all went to the same high school?
Oh, RD-NAME-2 is also in Kenilworth?
Is she also RD-WORK-3?
Oh, okay.
And that- Did you all meet in the neighborhood and then y'all both decided to work here?
Or did y'all meet here at the Club?
Oh, so y'all have known each other- I thought y'all like, just became friends like in the last- Oh.
Okay.
So how did y'all meet?
Around- and you were just  hanging out  outside or something?
Mm-hm.
Hm.
What's the old Kenilworth?
Whatchu mean?
Whatchu mean?
Like, what are they doing?
Do you feel like you're safe?
Why not?
Just- Is it like, drugs?
Is it like, just guns?
Is it just people like, stabbings, I mean.
Do you feel like people in the neighborhood protect each other?
So if it's like, other people who come in- So, most of the violence and stuff that happens is people who come in from the outside?
Is it like, turf?
Like is it  battle, like is it turf wars?
Like gangs?
Have you ever felt like, you were unsafe- Like, at one point, did you ever feel like something was gonna happen to you?
Or never?
But I mean were you- Did you ever- Was there ever a time you felt like, really scared.
Like, oh my God, something's finna happen.
No?
Right.
Right.
And then you a prisoner in your own home.
Do you walk to work?
You take the bus?
It's a long walk.
I saw RD-NAME-2 walking this morning.
Um,  but it was a lot of cars behind me, so I couldn't stop.
But I saw her walking um-   She was by Minnesota.
Right- You know, where that little- whatever that building is?
Oh, okay.
Bus.
It's one or the other, you're not gonna do the whole thing.
Especially when it's cold.
.
It's a mess.
Yeah.
Um,  my other questions are- I just want to ask a couple more.
Um, so your first job was RD-WORK-4.
Or did you have any other jobs?
Mm-hm.
What's that?
Oh, it's like a-  like a building, and you can just rent it out?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So it seems like you've done a lot of work with kids,  but  are you- But you're not going into-  like,  education or something like that.
You're going into sports.
So how did you go from-  Why do you do all your work with kids, but you're going into something totally different?
This your little side hustle?
Okay.
I'm not mad.
We all have little side hustles.
I'm not mad.
Just in case.
Cause I'm just hearing all your stuff that you do with the kids, but I mean you have a good adminis- Cause,  I will say, you and RD-NAME-2 do a lot of good administrative work, like keeping stuff.
You know, stuff that we just don't have time to do.
Like the lunch and snack thing that you help with RD-NAME-4  So I could see you doing strong- Like you do strongly with the administrative stuff, but you also do really really  good with the kids.
That's why I'm just surprised that  you know, you're going into um,  sports and br- Well I'm not surprised about the broadcasting part.
I'm not surprised.
What do you think your- What are you looking forward to the most in college?
What are you-  What are you the most scared about?
Why?
Is it a big city or a little city?
You never been there?
Oh.
Just the college part.
So how's it gonna be when you can't just get on the metro and go somewhere.
You can't get on the bus.
But it's nothing like the city.
It's not like DC.
Is it- So you're not- you're not milking cows.
That makes it a city if it's Walmart?
Is there a Starbucks?
Oh you don't drink s- You- you won't know about Starbucks.
Oh, okay.
That's always my- my requirement.
It has to have Starbucks.
I can't come visit you, if there's not a Starbucks.
Yes.
Oh, that's their rule.
Oh.
Mm-hm, so like an award kind of thing.
So what do you- Are you living on campus?
Oh, you're gonna have a room- Oof.
You gonna have a roommate?
This your first time.
You a only child.
Are you excited about that?
Why?
Aw, you just want a little sister.
Right.
Is it like, a mixed campus?
Is it black and white, is it just black?
Is- Do you know?
Oh, it's a HB- Then it's mostly- I mean it's mostly black.
But- It's some white people?
Do you feel like- Let's go back to that for a second cause right now all the stuff that's going on, especially like, black men.
Um,  do you feel like the city- Do you feel like it's a lot racism in the city?
Mm-hm.
Do you see it?
Do you think it's- Like what?
Like what do you see?
Because you're black?
Oh, so it's not even like,  white and black.
It's like, other cultures and other races that feel like you gonna do something because you black.
Mm.
Do you see that in like, certain parts of town more?
Like, if you not in- Well, in Kenilworth, that's kind of like, mostly black right?
But if you go let's say, Uptown, or you go to Columbia Heights, or you go  Southeast or Northwest, do you feel like  certain groups- When you go certain places, they look at you differently?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Where?
What area, like- Oh.
Mm.
So you've had just different interactions with all different groups.
Like, I just want some extra cheese.
And she was- Oh this is something else?
Did she ever give you your dollar back?
Dang.
The lady was gonna take your dollar.
Mm-hm.
When you were paying your money- right.
Mm-hm.
Cause she was gonna take your dollar.
Yup, dang.
Eastern Mark- Oh they put you out?
So like you can't go back, or just that one day?
Oh, okay.
I ain't want you to have like, Most Wanted: RD-NAME-2 on the sign.
You can't walk in the store or something.
Okay.
Where do you hang out mostly?
Like,  do you stay in-  Cause that was Eastern Market, do you stay in like, Kenilworth area?
Or do you go- What do you r- Where is like,  um, most frequent hang out spot?
What do you do at Union Station?
You know somebody else told me this, and I just can't beli- I go to the- the train and get off and leave.
So you just hang out at Union Station?
When you RD-NAME-2.
Is that a school?
Oh, RD-SCHOOL-2 Middle School, okay.
Yup, nope.
Mm-mm.
Somebody else said that.
And that's been- People have- hang out-  have been there for awhile cause she was a older lady who was telling me about Union Station.
Like, she was like,  forty five.
And she used to  hang out at Union Station, like with her sisters and her friends.
Hm.
That's the hang out.
And Eastern Market?
What do you do at Eastern Market?
I always just go for cupcakes.
Yeah that's the only way I- That's the only time I go over there.
Where?
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Um, but they're at- They're under Walt- Um, Walt Whitman now, right?
Mm-hm.
Um, somebody else was talk- Who was- Um, was it like a news article or something I was reading about.
RD-WORK-4 is now with Walt Whitman.
Um, to do like a larger- to focus larger- Cause they don't just focus on teen's anymore.
It's like a whole community um, outreach thing.
And then what about,  have you ever had Sweet Lobby cupcakes?
RD-NAME-2!
I'm'a have to get you one for- for doing my interview.
I'm'a have to get you- It's from- It's right on um,   right off of Pennsylvania?
You know where the Dunkin Donuts is?
So you go in- you by the Barracks side  on Eastern Market right?
See I'm coming on the other side by right off of Pennsylvania.
Yes, right there.
Yes, okay.
So the Subway, and then you go over- Yes, okay.
Right by Dunkin Donuts is the Sweet Lobby.
It's called- It's a cupcake place.
They won cupcake awards.
It's a black owned business.
It's a small- It's- It's tiny, like it's smaller than this room.
Um, like the store part.
But their cupcakes are so good.
I'm'a have to bring you- What's your favorite kind of cupcake?
R- I knew you were gonna say red velvet.
I knew- Why- That's everybody's favorite.
I'm'a bring you something different.
I'm not gonna bring you red velvet.
You like chocolate.
Was that the BET thing?
No.
Image Make- Okay.
Mm-hm.
I wonder if that's the same place cause when I went- I was in New York Or something, but it's next to like, a theater.
But it was like, close to Broadway area, right?
Where- Yup.
Because I was there- When I went to um, a show,  we went to this cupcake place, and you can get- they're really little- Yeah.
And we got like six.
Melissa's?
And um, and we had like- We bought- Cause you can buy 'em like, two or three.
Mm-hm.
And you can just eat 'em like little- Yup.
Mm-hm, and they have all the different flavors.
Yes, they were so good- And they were quick to eat cause they are little.
Oh you got all the crazy ones.
Well I can't- I got som- I got some- I got like a caramel peanut but- uh, k- not peanut butter- caramel uh, pecan like a turtle kind of thing.
It was good.
It was- I mean they were kind of expensive, but cupcake- That's how people making money.
They are making money on these cupcakes.
But look how little the cupcakes is you paying- you know, like you paying a dollar.
Right, it don't- be like, oh, it's just a dollar, but really you getting like one bite  for a dollar.
And see that's that lady took your dollar for that salad dressing.
She messed your cupcake game up.
Um, alright so last couple of things that I want to ask you.
Um, do you have a favorite restaurant besides Chipotle and Popeyes?
Why?
Me too .
That's my favorite.
And I like the Jack Daniel's sauce.
Yeah, I put it on everything.
Mm-hm.
But see I don't eat the ribs, and I'm allergic to shrimp.
Mm-hm.
But I get the sauce- I put it on my chicken nuggets.
You know how they can do 'em in the- I get 'em tossed in the Jack Daniel's sauce.
Put it on my mashed potatoes.
It- Yes!
Now you making me want to go to Friday's and get some Jack Daniel's sauce.
That might be my dinner tonight.
Mm-hm.