And where were you born?
Okay, so you were born in Prince George's but you grew up in DC.
In what neighborhood?
Mm.
.
You got a neighborhood,   That's Woodland.
It's cool she wouldn't hear about them girl gangs and stuff.
Um- What- how long have you lived in DC?
Twenty-three years.
Where'd you live the other two years?
Huh.
How'd you get to Germany?
Mm.
I thought so.
Where'd you go to school?
Mm-hm.
They ain't gonna remember ?.
I don't remember that.
Oh mm-hm.
And college.
Oh.
My girlfriend just graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3 a coup- well not just, two years ago.
Um, what do you do?
What about your father and mom where were they born?
I like my baby hair with baby hair and afros.
Hey.
What about your parents what do they do?
Mm.
Is he in reserves?
Or is he retired?
No?
Oh.
She was trying to  So-   So tell me about, um,  your youngest memory like your first- do you remember your first home um, or your first- like, growing up in DC, tell me about it.
But just describe 'em.
Mm-hm.
Are your-  so wait how many siblings do you have?
Okay.
And did you all live together?
Um,  so what-  okay so you said you didn't play outside so what did you do as a kid like growing up- In the house?
So outside did you ever feel like  there was a point where you were going to get hurt?
So you were safe in an unsafe neighborhood because you had people- Gotcha.
So what about elementary school?
Do you remember a lot about elementary school?
What about RD-SCHOOL-2?
Mm.
And you were like eleven, right?
So it wasn't a-   so out of control.
I was gonna say that.
Have anything like really just shaken you to the core like- and- and- and you don't have to share if you don't want to but like something that's just like, messed you all up emotion like, I just can't, this is too much?
Mm.
Um, so I'll ask you- so okay, moving on to- to middle school then we'll come back, um, but moving to middle school, you went to- I forgot what you s- which one.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
And high school?
Okay.
Why did you hate going- okay.
Mm-hm.
Why?
But no- but I mean why did it end up being- embracing the experience?
I ain't like it because it was hood but it was great because it was hood.
Branch out to the- Mm.
Mm.
And when you say show them the ni- like what do you mean like how do you- I understa- my mom was  um, a single parent and we grew up in the projects so I understand, and my mom was very much- she said she would go without so that we could ha- so we would never know what it is to eat, you know never know what it is to be hungry, never know what it is to- You okay?
Oh yeah I kno- ooh, yes, um.
So I- I understand that, I understand you don't, you know.
Um, so thinking about high school then, you moved to-  you went to RD-SCHOOL-4, what was that experience like?
Where is it?
Is it- Where is Math- Okay.
It could be either eleventh or twelfth depending on when you started school.
Eleventh.
You was pregnant twelfth grade.
Oh.
Two-thousand seven.
Mm.
Girl you got a lot of living situations.
Wasn't it RD-NAME-2?
Was it RD-NAME-2?
So,  do me a favor, move your mic to the middle of your shirt.
No because you talk with your hands, that's fine, I just don't want you to- I don't want it to hit you.
Um, okay so you had your son,  and then  um, when- at what point did you- Okay you-  Okay so then fr- how did you-  kind of from high school did you go straight to UDC?
Okay.
Ooh,   Mm-hm.
It sure wasn't.
Amen.
You got the real life bills.
Mm-hm.
Okay, rewind.
We going back.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Who was that?
Who was that?
Oh.
She know her baby father is girl.
Okay.
no judgement.
Mm-mm.
Oh, she don't wanna hear my   Did God physically say that?
You felt that?
Yup.
Mm.
Okay, you're fertile.
Mm-hm.
It's okay, it's my mom.
She- we can- we can talk to her later.
Well congratulations, what's your degree in?
Okay.
But that's a smart- I'm'a tell you why that's really smart.
Human resources is always a necessary field right, you can have no company Yes it is.
and you don't have an HR department.
So th-  if nothing else, that's a great  backup plan, because it's- it's- Everybody needs somebody in HR.
They always need somebody in HR.
everybody needs HR.
So, that's a great backup plan.
So how was college?
Mm.
Hanging out with the boys.
And having a baby.
When is the baby due?
July what?
My birthday's in July.
If you could just wait a couple weeks  Honey I understand that, you wanna give birth as soon as possible.
Um, July twenty seventh.
Leo.
Uh-  ooh.
birthday?
Uh-uh.
I'm trying to get her to do it but Jessie can't do hers until six, so I- I don't know if she wanted to be by five.
Oh.
Now that'd be a interesting interview.
So um,  okay so let's talk about then talk about-  so okay, I know you're getting- you're- you're engaged now, so tell me a little about your fiance.
And I moved my seat so y'all could see him.
I moved seats so y'all two could sit  Well yeah you got up  Mm.
Cause I was sitting beside him so I- him and his sister, so I end up moving- you know, I moved to the  Mm-hm.
Y'all started drinking.
And  Mm.
I remember that.
I do too.
Start a new relationship.
Mm-hm.
Everything's a sign.
She crazy.
That's dope.
Exit message.
That's that backup plan.
That's that side- that side-   Mm.
Mix, mm-hm.
Yup.
I know that feeling.
Mm.
Alright.
I understand.
You better be street if you looking at me, hey.
Are y'all team RD-NAME-2?
Even when they crazy.
Mm-hm, when are you gonna get married?
Mkay, take some time.
God, this girl's annoying.
One relationship's a lot of work.
Okay.
It is a lot of work.
Mm-hm.
It is a lot so how did you- okay so let's talk about a different type of relationship right, so you're best friends, how did y'all  get  together?
I know-  she told me kind of her side and I know RD-NAME-3 told me about- from your- how you become friends with them.
Mm.
Fall out in two point five seconds, not talk two point five years.
So tell me a little bit about the mentoring program.
To either of them?
Oh, okay.
Is that your- that's the way you cope, you just kind of- So tell me about   some times with your-  your- your little boy, I see the Disney World picture on the table.
How was that experience?
Show me the pictures.
Your m- so she's better now?
Mm.
But  you're getting back to that relationship and- and just- Oh okay.
You like the mother.
Mm-hm.
How about you and your siblings, are y'all close?
Mm.
So what do you like to- to do besides- okay, so I know you like to kind of hang out with your girls, um, and that may be your thing, what's- is that your favorite thing to do?
Mkay.
So where's been your best trip?
Wow.
She's crazy.
I love it.
I ain't do nothing I'm scary.
Oh.
Hey,  we're on a banana boat.
Wait, whatchu talking about?
Oh yeah, RD-NAME-3 almost died.
I was scared but RD-NAME-3 almost died.
So we almost died in the banana boat.
RD-NAME-3 went like this.
You mean big girl?
No but- but look how this girl sit.
Yeah, really not scared.
This chair looks scary like it's gonna break.
We flipped over so many times.
.
We had  How many times did we get on and get off, three times?
We flipped over- one time we flipped all the way over.
Didn't they pull you back- they pulled her back in.
Oh that thing was terrible, .
I can't- I was- my life jacket wasn't working.
RD-NAME-3 No it was over my head.
I'm just terrified, I'm just done, like-    RD-NAME-3 was- the life jacket was like this and RD-NAME-3 head was like this.
Yeah so I'm like a holder on as opposed to trying to get on then someone was like, I hold on like- But if I didn't have y'all I woulda been dead.
And everybody else on there.
Everybody else on.
You said once she was saved.
Her favorite moment was your near death experience.
What  that's some messed up stuff.
Hey that thing was funny, I forgot all about that honestly.
That thing was funny.
Oh yeah, I had a ball in Miami too, I forgot about Miami.
So where's your next- what's your next goal tri- like, where- She wants to go to Fiji.
For what?
What about you?
No why is that crazy?
My friend just came back.
She did it for uh, My coworkers .
like, I think she w- did they go like- Oh yeah RD-NAME-2 what did RD-NAME-2 wants to go with.
Oh thank god at least I won't be there by myself.
December?
She did it in December.
Sorry.
Mm-hm.
She-  She loved it.
She got baptized in the river, she loved it- in the Jor- she loved it, she s-  she said it was probably one of the best thing-  cause she's also in a different like- like right now she's trying to figure out like  if she's gonna switch jobs, and she just moved to a new house and all this stuff so her life was kind of just all over the place so she said it was really calming for her.
That's why I need to do that.
Yeah but she said it's worth it, she said it was really worth it more so like, emotionally and spiritually than, you know- You should go.
I need to go there right now.
I got a lot of life changes I need to go there right now.
I mean  Fiji.
Yeah but I could go to  I'm calling Ru I need to go to Ru.
You need to go to Ru?
Yeah, that's  Okay.
And where- where did Bali come from?
And the pictures look good?
This girl is crazy talking about she seen somebody else go there.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Submissive type?
I appreciate that.
I appreciate that.
So,   what's the one thing- you said you like to do the daredevil type stuff and you enjoyed RD-NAME-3 almost dying.
What's something that you wanna do like that's a- that you haven't done that you think, oh I've gotta do that before I- Yeah.
I was- I was with you um, Until you said herd of animals.
the herd of animals.
You lost me at that.
Seriously?
You just wanna have a labor- a delivery in the car?
Maybe you should have a t- tub birth.
A water birth.
That is amazing story to tell, it's calm, it's peaceful, it's you and your mate, he's hoping the baby come out.
She just , look how she's sitting  she could  her chair.
I always wanted to experience a real birth, I didn't have a real labor.
I mean not- I mean not that it was fake but  I had C-sections, always wanted to push a baby.
It's a good way to think.
So that- Jumping out there on that faith.
Mm jumping right out.
She- she died on that faith she almost drowned on that faith honey.
Drowned like RD-NAME-3  Mm.
So has there ever been a time like, not-   and it could be your daredevil time or it could be just walking down the street where you felt like oh my god, Is this the  Which one?
I'm about to die.
This white one?
Mm-hm.
Oh my god, she gonna be so thankful.
My mother.
And you just didn't feel- either you didn't feel safe or you felt uncomfortable or you felt  in danger.
But you enjoyed it.
Oh I missed it.
You're crazy.
So you're a thrill seeker.
So if somebody come in here stick up this joint you'll be thrilled.
Oh I'm the scariest person  Me too, like I don't even like to get stopped for a traffic ticket.
Right.
Chest hurting.
Like I get upset when they send the little thing in my mail like, um,  you were going fifty-seven and it was a forty-five.
Like, damn.
I remember that time we went to Busch Gardens y'all talked me into that ride, I don't do roller coasters.
Period.
You a roller coaster?
I got on that roller coaster I almost died.
Oh.
Then when we got pulled over he thought we was prostitutes.
Wait a minute I missed that one.
It was good.
Why?
Oh yeah.
No you can't go they- Mm.
Well y'all had y'all daredevil time I watch.
I ain't- I'm too- I'm too old to be dare-deviling I'm finna die  Mm-mm.
What did you say?
Oh RD-NAME-2 get on what?
Oh no ma'am I walk through the whole theme park don't get on nothing.
Unless we have a little funnel cake.
Yeah.
Well thank you it was so nice to meet you.
Oh interesting interview, thank you.
Uh, I'll see you girls later.
I guess I got  wedding dates for me and RD-NAME-2.
Girl bye.
Bye.
Oh  I'm t- I'm locking your door, nodding.
I'm- you know it's just habit.
Habit just-  Um,  so  let me ask you this- Oh, mm-hm.
Okay, like what?
You'll jump out of a plane and jump off a bridge but you ain't gonna get your palm read?
Talking about, you  Have you ever been scuba diving?
Water.
Oh I'll do it with you.
I went scuba diving in Cozumel, it was the best.
It was the best.
I wanna do skydiving.
Mm-hm I- I did parasailing one day and then we did scuba diving the n- Uh,  but that's like getting in trouble kind of stuff.
No no no.
Like I wouldn't do like daredevil-y.
But scuba diving changed my life like that was like a pivotal moment in my life.
Yes, oh I loved it.
It is like-  there- like, so where- okay so where I'm sitting and like where the balloon is  there were like two barracudas there.
I did it with my best friend.
She don't even- She don't even want to get out the boat.
The boat.
She need to stay- she need to stay in the boat.
So let's talk a little about DC, have you seen the city  change?
Do you feel like it's changing?
Or do you feel like it's the same as you remember as a child?
Mm.
Um,  what about- so you guys hang out on H Street a lot, do you remember when H street was like-  do y- have you seen- do you remember it changing over the last few years?
Mm-hm.
What's your favorite place to hang out?
Not necessarily H Street, anywhere in the city.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Any particular places on the U Street?
No?
What's your favorite restaurant or favorite rest- or  places that you really like as far as food.
Really?
Why?
Mm.
So where do you go now?
B- oh, go ahead yeah.
I don't know.
Oh I like them too, yeah.
I must wanna go there today.
Mm-hm.
You like the Ha- you went to the Hamil- did you take RD-NAME-1 to the Hamilton?
You have- you have   Mm-hm.
I would have said Antonios.
Yeah like the-  Oh that's why you like Sticky Rice.
Cause it's little.
Yup  Have you been to Boundary?
I just went there yesterday.
It's- it's- it's, um, it's pretty- it's cute.
It's kind of like a wine and cheese type thing but like I had a cheesesteak and then the lady I was with she had a quiche.
Um, so it was just kind of like American-y.
Four- I think it's-  the address was four fourteen.
Uh-huh it's on that- it's on the-  is it Northwest side?
It's on the Northeast side.
I have to say that you and Denise be knowing all the places.
I'm like, nigga, how you gonna get to know all the places to go, what's the place we went to for RD-NAME-3 baby shower?
Oh Gordon Biersch?
But that's a chain.
Oh for the baby shower?
Yeah, I like that too.
Wait not the baby shower for the  For the saying goodbye?
Yeah that's Gord-  So,  I moved back in two thousand, um,   at the end of two thousand twelve so almost four years but I went to college here.
And I went to get my- so I was here five years  before I left.
Love it better?
Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
So have you been a tourist in your own city?
Mm-hm, exactly.
But people who fly from California- Just to come- Are y- Are you going to the African American Museum when it opens up?
You need to- I'm going, I'm gonna take- I- so I teach as well, I'm gonna take my class there, um, but I'm r- I hear it's  going to be something.
Well rough kids are like that, like her kids  they into that type of stuff.
Mm-hm.
And you had to- One of the things that I tell people to do,  and I know it sounds silly but like, do one of the little tourist things, like one of the little  get on the bus  and they do the tour.
I think it- I, uh, actually wanted to be a tour guide when I was- I don't know that was just this crazy part of my- but I- they're really interesting they have some interesting stories.
And if nothing else it just gives you a very different perspective of like, where you live, right?
Cause you live outside of- I did that one before, I've done the one- the little duck boat where you g- where it goes down Potomac.
Um, I've done the night- the night one is the best, I think that's the prettiest one.
Um, I haven't done the dinner cruise but I've done the lunch cruise,  um, from Southwest off the, um,  marina- Waterfront, mm-hm.
Oh okay.
N- in Northwest?
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
I've never been there.
Nick's Riverside Grill.
In Georgetown.
Okay I'll look it up.
Cause I'm in Georgetown a lot, ob- obviously, so.
Oh, okay, so it's like- it's not- okay I thought the whole thing was called Nick's Riverside Grill so Nick's is just one in there by itself Oh okay.
Oh okay, alright I'm'a have to go over there cause I don't eat a lot over there actually.
Mm-hm.
Okay, and it's not expensive?
Oh I'm allergic to crab.
Okay.
Okay.
Do you eat mumbo sauce?
Danny's?
Where's Danny's?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I've ne- okay so I'm'a have to go over there, I was just thinking like what am I gonna eat today, that might be- I'm- I've only tried- I've tried a few different- I've tried Eddie's- The one,  um, that's up the street from- So I work in the same building she works in, I work on the other side so the one right up, uh, I think Marlboro Pike.
Oh no I ain't- not over here.
I- I'm not usually- oh we have a club over here but I'm not usually over in Southeast.
Um,   cause I live in Silver Spring, so I have-  When I come into DC if I'm not in Georgetown  or Northeast  I'm usually not- Mm-hm.
But it's actually not  that  ba- But I have no desire to live in-  But she's past me.
Uh, so she is still like, four or five miles past where I am.
But still I mean it still- it is a long way.
I mean it's like eighteen miles but in DC eighteen miles could be like a hour.
Or it could be like twenty minutes, you know what I mean, just depending on traffic.
Traffic is the worst.
Um, so d- mm.
A- speaking of traffic do you- do you drive everywhere, do you take public transportation?
Why?
Mm-hm.
No traffic  Do you like public transportation?
What line do you ride?
Oh okay.
Cause- But the red line I think is the worst.
Oh, mm.
Really?
Is it a certain part?
Like is it one end versus the other?
At what point does it change, like you know how you can like- okay well once you get to this stop- After Gallery Place?
Mm-hm.
It's really that bad?
Mm-hm.
Mm.
How do you feel like this neighborhood- is it safe around these parts?
It seems really quiet.
Mm-hm.
Do you see your neighborhood changing like rent going up, different people moving in?
How does that make you feel?
Really?
Hm.