Yes.
Yes.
Hi.
I was born in Queens, New York.
in September of sixty-nine.
And, um,  born to a  teenage mom and a  teenage dad.
And, um.
M- m-  Uh, my mom, by the way of her family, South Carolina, and my dad by the way of his family, Florida.
They moved to, uh, New York and, um, they both settled in Queens.
Um, they were both teenagers when they moved to Queens, the borough of Queens.
And um, my mom lived with her aunt, and her mom lived in the South, so she kind of came to the city  at the age of about a- twelve, I believe it was.
And she went to the school systems there in Queens.
And my dad also.
He came to the city, I think he was a little younger than my mom when his family left, uh,  Florida and moved to New York.
And um,  so I guess my parents kind of met up as teenagers or whatever and- Not even at school.
I don't think they went to the same school, cause my dad was four years older than my mom.
So, um.
They met, I- I really can't remember exactly the whole story behind them meeting or whatever, but I do know that they got married when my mom was sixteen.
And my aunt signed for her to get married, um, and my dad went off to war.
And he went to Vietnam, and um, my mom was pregnant with me.
And she had me in Queens, um, I think my dad came home for leave when she had me.
And then he went back.
And I w- I went to live with my grandma in the South, while my mom was  here trying to work and make some money or whatever.
And then, um, I believe my dad came back from Vietnam when I was about two.
And, we lived here, we moved to Lower East Side when I was about two years old.
Well, yeah.
We left Quee- we left Manhattan, the Lower East Side, when I- I guess I was about maybe  four, I think we moved, um, to Queens, back to Queens.
And um,  then to South Carolina for about  a year or two.
And then back to-   back to New York from South Carolina.
And back to Queens.
And um, because that's the base of where my- my mom's and my dad's family was living at the time.
And, um,   I don't think we ended up back on the Lower East Side until my mom and dad separated and that was in the year of uh,  I wanna say, nineteen seventy-nine.
We moved back to New York.
Yeah, I was about ten years old.
And we lived, um, we actually lived in a women's shelter, um, located on Avenue  B, at the time, and Ninth Street, there was a women's shelter there.
Now- now it's this  big fancy,  I wanna say,  co-op, it's not even a co-op it's probably privatized h- apartments now.
Yeah.
It's gated in, it was really, really nice.
And I believe it was run by the Catholic Church at that particular time.
Or some private organizations.
But, um,   anyway, I remember being there for  about two or three months and  it was over the summer that we had to stay there and, um, til we got an apartment on Thirteenth Street.
Between, um, First and Avenue A.
And we lived on Thirteenth Street.
Nope.
First and A.
First and A, is private Compost Plaza is C and D.
Yeah.
And um, we lived on Thirteenth Street from like nineteen-ei- nineteen  eighty to maybe eighty-five.
We moved here in nineteen eighty-five to RD-ADDRESS-4 in eighty-five.
Yeah, my mom was actually trying to be a um,    a homesteader.
And at t- and at that time, um  the  President Carter, he had a program,  Project Appleseed, I believe it was, and they were helping  low income families, um, that wanted to take over these abandoned buildings down on the Lower East Side.
And they were converting them into apartments, which the family did sweat equity and actually would own their own apartment.
Well,  my mom  f- she fell through the flooring of- of the apartment that she was working on.
And she just kind of gave up because she s- she got injured.
So she gave up.
Cause it was- it was a lot for her, you know, she was doing it by herself, single mom, three kids.
Really, really hard at the time for her to, you know, to do that by herself.
And, you know, and for her to get hurt.
She hurt her back really bad, and, um,  I remember from then on it- it just got really-  it got really bad.
And so  um, you know, living on Thirteenth Street was rough for her.
She applied for these apartments here, I think she originally applied for,  uh,  t- two ten Stanton Street.
Which was  Pueblo Nuevo, at the time.
And  she didn't get in  to Pueblo Nuevo, but she did get in here.
So we were like, the foundation family for this building.
That's also section eight, which is the sister building to that building.
Right.
Right.
This is section eight housing.
Right.
Yeah.
So we've been here, same apartment.
Since eighty-five my family has been in this apartment.
Well, you know, my brothers left and I left, I got married.
I came back when my mom deceased in ninety-two.
Um, no actually ninety-four.
My mom passed in ninety-four.
So I came back here in the summer of ninety-four.
So, um, and I been here since.
Yeah.
With my two sons, my two boys.
Um, I have a sixteen year old and a twelve year old.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I know that, um,  I remember being a kid- well I can remember Thirteenth Street very well.
Thirteenth Street was that kind of block where everybody kind of  knew everyone.
We were like,  wasn't very many black families that lived on Thirteenth Street.
In fact, I don't there were  any black families that lived on Thirteenth Street.
We were like, one of the few that lived  in that ratio.
In that one block ratio that we lived on.
So it was kind of different.
It was all Puerto Rican.
It was all Puerto Rican.
And I don't even remember a Dominican family at all.
At that time it was just predominantly Puerto Rican and Caucasian.
And that was it.
And it was, you know, very mixed, very  blended.
Um, people very free-will.
People very kind  to one another.
Um.
They couldn't care less.
We all just kind of blended and fitted in.
And, um, we- I remember  like, playing on the fire escape as a kid.
And going up and down the fire escape, not even being fearful that we were on a fire escape and we lived on the fourth floor.
We would just go to each other apartments, knocking on each other's windows.
Hey, you know, what's going on.
And, um, I remember my neighbors- learning how to speak Spanish with my neighbors.
And picking up the accent  of the community.
And really, you know,  not really identifying with being a Southerner or  someone from Queens, but really knowing that, you know, I was a Lower East Sider at that point.
They couldn't cared less where you came from.
Once you're on the Lower East Side, you're from the Lower East Side, pretty much.
And, um, especially if you make roots there and you go to school there, or whatever.
So that's- that's what I remember.
And just playing stick ball on the street, Johnny on a pony.
Played on a block.
When the cars came, everybody moved.
And when the cars left, everybody went back.
I remember summertime, um.
On person's back.
Yeah, and the last person- It's a very rough game.
It's a very rough game.
Very rough game.
And Booties Up.
Booties Up was that game where you got hit with the ball on your backside.
Yeah.
It was crazy.
Yeah, we played together.
The boys and girls played together.
Um, didn't matter what your family's economic situation was, cause if you lived in the tenements, everybody was pretty much the same, you know.
Everybody was working families or you know, uh, lower income families, or whatever.
Lot of single mothers.
I remember, um, in the neighborhood like, the super's kids that lived in the building next door from us.
They were like, the largest family, cause they had like, six kids.
And they were like, the largest family.
Everybody else, um,  you know, were not, not too big.
Like my neighbor that lived below us,  who  still lives in the community and still recognizes me and my brothers all the time.
Um, she had a big  blended family, also.
Her kids were all together and they had, like, two apartments  together.
Like, the walls were broken  through to make the- the one- the two bedrooms into a four bedroom.
So she had the biggest apartment, downstairs from us.
And then, you know, I remember my neighbors that lived upstairs, you know.
So I mean, you know.
Pretty- pretty close.
The tenement was rough, because it was owned by a Jewish family and  they didn't take care of the tenement very well.
Not at all.
The guy was just like a slumlord.
And that much I remember cause my mom was always fighting about  the ceilings being broken.
My uncle would come in and make some basic repairs, trying to fix stuff.
We had the-  the bathtub in the kitchen and the toilet had the- the t- the tank was on the top and there was a long string you had to pull it.
And I- I remember that- that bathroom   o well.
My uncle came and he built a- a wall so we could have some privacy in the kitchen.
And, um,  you know.
So it was- it was- it was really interesting.
I remember all my friends from when I was younger.
Like, I went to elementary school at RD-SCHOOL-4 on RD-ADDRESS-4.
The RD-SCHOOL-4 school.
And I went there for two years.
And  all of my friends re- they pretty much, we all recognize each other when we see each other in the street.
Like, hey how are you, whatever.
And even the kids that lived down on the other side of- of First Avenue, you know, we were pretty cool with them.
Cause they all went to RD-SCHOOL-4.
And, um, all my brothers went to the boy's club on Tenth Street.
So, you know, I kind of grew up in the boy's club.
Cause I, you know, I had no place to go.
Girls back then didn't have a club.
Before they did, uh, the BGR Club, which is now  the Henry Street owns that.
So before that came about, you know, we all kind of just hung out  wherever.
You know, wherever you could get in.
I- I volunteered at the boy's club and then they essentially gave me a summer job.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember, um.
I was in junior- once I went to junior high school, I went to the school that was directly around the corner.
Which was, uh,  RD-SCHOOL-6.
Which was one of the- not such a great school in the community.
Yeah.
Wasn't- it didn't have such a great reputation.
Not such a good reputation at all.
It was true, cause l- lot- a lot of the kids that went- uh, that lived in the- the projects down on Avenue D, they came up to First Avenue to go to school there.
Cause their parents didn't want them going to n- whatever RD-SCHOOL-6 that was right there on Houston Street.
Their parents didn't send them to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Or RD-SCHOOL-3 was too far, so they had to go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Cause RD-SCHOOL-2 was directly up.
From like, Tenth Street and Twelfth Street, so all those kids just came on up.
I learned how to play hooky.
I learned about marijuana use.
I didn't know anything about all that stuff until like, I really started like, getting known with the kids.
Then my mother's like, I don't want you hanging out with those kids from Avenue D.
Nah, she was-  nope.
My mother was really like, very strict.
Yeah.
And she was a young mom, but she was a strict mom.
Stay close to home.
We couldn't go past Avenue A.
Could not.
And we couldn't go any further than Tenth Street without her.
She would never send us, like, beyond Tenth Street.
Not at all.
No.
Never.
Couldn't do it.
If I did it, it was defying my mother.
Yeah, it was really d- of course I did.
I was a kid.
Of course.
Of course.
Especially like those middle school years, when I, you know, started feeling myself, hanging out with the- the crew.
That's when I got to know the black kids in the community.
Cause I didn't even know they existed.
Up until- like, there was only one black girl in my-  my, um,  elementary school with me.
Her name was RD-NAME-3 and I never forget her.
And she still lives here on the Lower East Side, so when we see each other.
Hey.
You remember being the only black kids in the school?
Like, yeah.
We would laugh and joke about it all the time.
We still do.
Avenue D.
They all lived on the Ave.
As we called it.
Then I got exposed to the black kids in the neighborhood.
That was like, oh.
There's black kids.
Yep.
Different experience.
Um, I met new people, new m- made new friends.
Um, you know, not- not that I neglected the old friends that I had, but I think I picked a- a little bit of a- a swagger, you know, of the-  what the- the other Lower East Siders were like, you know.
Yeah, the Ave kids.
And they had major attitude.
They talked back and, you know, whereas the Spanish kids were a little bit more respectful.
They were like, you know, like mm-mm.
No, we're not gonna do some of those thing.
When you knew  the Spanish kids that came from Avenue D,  were like the black kids that came from Avenue D.
And they all kind of blended in together, you know.
Um, pretty cool.
That's when, um,  Compost Plaza was just being built.
Around that time, when I got into, like, middle school.
And the kids that lived in Compost Plaza were like the new families that lived in there.
There were a few black families that lived there, and we all thought they were like, really rich kids.
Cause Compost was this really fancy place.
It was so nice when it was put up.
Really, really nice.
And everybody was like, you live in Compost?
Wow, your family must have money, you know.
And all those kids dressed nice and their families had good jobs, so.
You know, we just thought that they were like,  the best.
Yeah, yeah.
High school, I didn't go too far.
I went to school on Fourteenth Street, at that time it was RD-SCHOOL-5 which was a all girls school.
And it was like, I think it was one of the m- only all girls school that was left besides, um,    what was the other one?
On, um,   uh, Fourteenth Street and Union Square.
The other one that was there.
Washington Irving was a all girls school, too, at that time.
Yeah, and then they integrated boys into the school, like I believe it wasn't about eighty-four.
They s- they got boys.
The year that I was- yeah.
Mm-hm.
They were all girls.
And they were vocational high schools.
So RD-SCHOOL-3 was the school, you know, like- you know, you wanted to go to RD-SCHOOL-3.
At first  I wanted- I auditioned to go to the School of Performing Arts, cause I was very big on the arts.
And  I didn't make it in there, so.
I ended up- I was into theater.
And singing.
Yeah.
And, um  I didn't realize how intense it was to audition to get into those schools, so I didn't make it.
Cause I was-  I guess I didn't take it serious.
And, um, I didn't know.
And my music teacher didn't know either.
She was just like, yeah you can go try.
Go try.
Go see.
You know, I had no clue.
Um, what I was up against .
Like, These were the best of the city kids, you know.
Um, so I ended up going to RD-SCHOOL-5.
And I met my current husband there.
We, um- but he was on his way out, I was on my way in.
And, um, and boys were there.
And, um, I believe eighty-four was the first years boys  got into the school, so.
You know, it was- it was still pre- predominantly girls.
It was a g- it was a- ye- yeah, I guess.
I guess it was great for them.
I loved RD-SCHOOL-5.
I grew a lot, I learned a lot.
Um, I had great friends.
I still have friends that,  you know, uh-  attended the school.
It- that life long friends.
And, um, you know.
So I mean,  It was- it was fabulous, you know.
And it- and it- and it- I guess I had a sense of pride cause I'm like, I live on the Lower East Side.
Lot of these kids came from Brooklyn, the Bronx,  Harlem.
I was like, nah.
I'm like, I can walk to school.
I don't know anything about what you're going through, riding a train.
And, um, yeah it was.
It wasn't until my second year at RD-SCHOOL-3 that I had to go up to the, um, main building, which was on RD-ADDRESS-5.
I believe it is, yeah.
Yeah.
There's the main building.
It was in RD-ADDRESS-4.
So, you know, it felt good to get on the train like, I can ride the train now.
Like everybody else, you know.
And, uh, you know.
So my mother's like, oh you don't need to ride the train.
Get off the train.
Take the bus.
Take the bus.
I was like, nobody takes the bus, mom.
Everybody rides the train.
So.
It was really cool.
After high school I went on to college.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-8 way out in Bayside, Queens .
Cause I wanted to get out of the neighborhood.
I was like, I don't wanna be in the Lower East Side.
I don't wanna go to BMCC.
You know, I didn't wanna-  I wanted to actually go away to school, but my mom was fearful, um,  you know, because of my health and everything.
She really didn't want me going too far away from her.
Um, And you know, she- yes.
I commuted to Bayside everyday, which was crazy.
Yeah.
I- I left home, I ended up leaving home at twenty-one.
Like I- I left home and got my own apartment.
I think it was a lot of my mom's fears of me growing up.
A lot of, um, the  not knowing how the rent was going to be for her once I started working full time.
Um, I- I- I got my first full time job at, like, twenty.
And like, I, you know, I started earning a income.
And it was more than what  she felt was  affordable for her.
And she didn't wanna go through the complications of living in section eight  and giving them my income.
And saying, you know, now her rent is gonna be high.
And, it affected big time.
So she was like, you know, not that she pushed me out.
She really didn't, but it was just- we just kept getting into these tug-o-war, these battles over money.
And- and it just became  a little bit more than what I could handle, so I- I ventured up to Harlem.
I got my first apartment up in Harlem.
Scary as hell.
Scary as hell.
I was- I was petrified to leave my apartment.
I lived up on a Hundred and Thirty-Eighth Street and Lenox Avenue, which was like, in the- in the heart of central Harlem.
Drug central.
Prostitution.
I didn't know nobody up there .
I don't even know what took me up to Harlem.
Actually,    I could- I didn't know that I could afford to live on the Lower East Side.
And I don't think I even-  I don't even think I looked for apartments on the Lower East Side.
I think all the places I looked for apartments  they started off in Harlem.
Just because I worked in Harlem.
I worked at Presbyterian Hospital, which was up like, a Hundred and Sixty-eighth Street.
I stopped going to college, I- I started working full time.
I worked actually as a research assistant.
Um, for the psychiatric institute.
So I- I did pretty good for myself.
I made a decent salary.
I stayed with them for about six years.
Yeah.
Until I ventured out.
I got married.
I had a baby.
And I ventured out, and I moved to Queens.
I got a s- uh, two bedroom apartment.
And, um,  in Maspeth.
Very quiet neighborhood.
Didn't know anything about that either.
But my uncle,  he worked at a shop downstairs and, um, the landlord owned the- a building  next door to his shop.
So he got me an apartment there.
Really, you know, the rent wasn't  all that affordable.
It was like  six hundred dollars a month.
I went from paying three fifty-eight or three twenty-eight or something like that.
I was paying like,  dirt rent cheap for a one bedroom apartment  to paying double the price for a two bedroom.
In a two-fare zone, at the time.
Which there was no free transfer, at that time.
So i- it got to be.
Queens, yep.
Mm-hm.
And then I came back when my mom passed away.
Yeah.
So like th- the bulk of the  early l- late eighties, early nineties.
Actually, I don't even think I was away for that long.
I w- I- I don't think it was a whole six years that I was gone from the neighborhood.
Yeah.
And then, um, I came back here,  back to this building.
Back to the craziness and landlord.
I  didn't really wanna come back, but I think I needed to come for the sake of my brother.
Who, um, is autistic and he needed someone to be here.
He was fifteen at the time, and  it was- he needed to be in the neighborhood where he was familiar with.
And I think his therapist and I discussed that.
And it was really a lot for him  making the- the move for him to come to Queens every day and, you know, I tried to have family members stay here with him.
It didn't work.
Um,  then the landlord started  inquiring, like, who are these  people m- staying in and out of your mom's apartment.
You know, somebody has to be in care of your brother.
And so that's when I discovered I had to get custody of my brother and all these other things that came into play.
And, um,  essentially find my biological father, and file for custody of my brother.
So it- it was- it was a- it was a big learning experience at the age of twenty-five.
It was a lot.
It was a lot.
And  that's when I learned about landlord tenant court.
All that stuff.
Um, I learned that my income was too high for this building at the time.
They jacked my rent up to like, nine hundred dollars a month.
And my brother was on a fixed income, and I was, you know, trying to make ends meet with a husband and a kid and.
It was- it was a lot.
I was still working up at the hospital.
So my- my i- my income was pretty good.
I mean, you know.
Wasn't, you know, the greatest but it was like twenty-one thousand at that time, in the nineties and the early- it was pretty good.
Yeah.
Yeah, for that time it was decent salary.
And, um, so they- they jacked my rent up.
And then when I left the hospital I started working  as a case manager in Brooklyn, so my- my income went up even higher.
And they raised my rent even higher.
I was almost paying about a thousand dollars a month for rent in here.
And- and- and it- it was the same conditions.
Oh I- they took me to court.
They actually tried to sue me for all the back rent after my mom passed away.
They did sue me for all the back rent.
Um, they said that I never claimed my income.
And they sued me for the back rent.
I ended up paying all the stuff, yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
And I owed them, like, a-  I- I guess it was something like ten thousand dollars.
They made me pay them back in order to live here.
Yeah.
So I had to take out a loan.
Had to pay the loan back.
Ah, it was crazy.
Just to stay here.
I stayed there for about two years doing case management.
And I  lost my job in, um, believe it was ninety-five-  was my youngest son.
Yeah, about ninety-five, I lost my job.
And, um,  I  got pregnant with my youngest son and I believe at that time, um, you know, I just went to school.
I was going to school.
I took up, um, medical assistant.
I just decided to just go back to school.
And, um,  did that for about a year.
And after the birth of my youngest son in ninety-six,  I got really, really sick.
So, I got really sick and I ended up being a-  out  from work completely, and um, being on disability.
And I stayed on disability for about ten years of my life.
Yep.
Doing better now, still have a health condition.
Doing better.
Um, I'm living, you know, life with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, so.
I'll be living with that.
But it's okay, you know, it comes and it goes.
You get symptoms, it goes and it comes.
And, um, had a home attendant.
I went through that whole process And now I'm back at work full time.
I am a site coordinator at an after school program in Brooklyn.
I work for one of the  oldest organizations on the Lower East Side, um, RD-WORK-8.
Yep.
I'm out in Brooklyn now, so I went from working at RD-WORK-5 on Third Street and, um,  they moved me out to Brooklyn when we opened up our first site in Brooklyn.
Yeah.
I love it.
I love the kids.
I love the- the families that I work with, they're awesome people.
Um, different- very much the same because we're all kind of like, in the same boat.
Everybody's  low-income, working class families just trying to make it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't- it's-  it's so interesting.
The Lower East Side is just one of those places that I just- I guess I just gravitated back to it because it's such a strong sense  of community here.
People know you, people remember you, people recognize you from your childhood years.
People that I grew up with,  um,  they never forget your face.
They always ask about my brothers, they ask about my,  you know, how I was doing with, you know, without my mom.
And you know, they remember me.
And people that knew me from when I was two  still remember my family, you know.
Like if I see them in the street, oh, I remember you when you were two years old.
And you used to hang out in the window.
And you would talk to me in the window, and, you know.
People like that, you know, people never forget you.
M-  It's a strong sense of community here.
I think that once you live on the Lower East Side, and once you know who your neighbors are, they-  you're really connected to you neighbors.
Like, the new people that move in, I don't think they feel the same sense that we feel.
Um, the true Lower East Siders that have been here like, my neighbors that have been here when we first moved in.
They  always ask about how you doing, how's your kids doing, how's you family.
And it's genuine, it's not just being nosy, you know.
some people, you know, you know they're just being nosy.
But even in their nosiness, I know that there's a genuine concern.
You know, like, um, so a lot of them know you family history and they can remember when, you know, they- they know all the good, the bad, and the ugly.
Um, and we all just kind of came up together, so you know each other.
You know, you can't run away from it.
And they know that you're connected to them in some kind of way.
Um,   I think the neighborhood has changed in a way where there's a lot of upper income  families that have moved into the community, that can afford to go back and forth.
If they wanted to, they can leave the Lower East Side at any given time.
And- and they can afford to leave.
Whereas the people that really live here  they can't afford to leave.
It's like, they don't know any other community.
They don't know how to,  you know, like I know I could walk to Fourteenth Street.
I know that.
I know I could get to the doctor's office, whether it's East Side, West Side, or wherever.
I know  where I could get to,  you know.
And I have a strong sense of where I'm at.
So even with my eyes closed, I know where I am at all times.
If you tell me oh, you're on  Avenue A  and Second Street.
Oh, okay.
I know exactly where I am, I know the stores that are on that block, you know, I know that.
Whereas,  the transient people that come here, I call them transient because they d- they- they- they really don't know.
You know, they're- they're trying to find- they- yeah that- they- they're not gonna stay long.
If they stay it's because they don't wanna lose that low, uh, income or affordable apartment that they have.
That somebody had to  sweat  and earn to get.
Or somebody put their blood, sweat, and tears into.
You know, they fixed up their apartments like it's their homes, you know.
Like, they painted all these nice colors and they put fancy tiles and, you know, they do all these things because this is where they assume they gonna be for the rest of their lives.
People don't really see themselves as leaving here.
You know.
Um, m- Well, I can tell you on Thirteenth Street  we didn't really have a lot of- of drugs  at that time, in the eighties.
I think, like,  it- it wasn't a lot of, like,  on that particular block where we lived, it was pretty decent.
But if you went the block down,  to between, like, B and C,  and then D,  it- it got- yeah.
It got progressively worse.
And you know there was a lot of drug use.
And that's the reason why my mom didn't let us go beyond a certain point.
That's why we couldn't go  beyond Tenth Street without my mom.
Because then it was avid drug use going on.
And you know, um, even on this block when we first moved here on RD-ADDRESS-3, it was rough.
Really, really rough.
All of Forsyth Street.
Yeah, eighty-five.
It was really bad.
It was a lot of prostitution on Forsyth.
Forsyth was over w- overrun with prostitution and heavy drug use.
That park across the street was  extremely dangerous  at night.
Lot of drug use, a lot of crack and cocaine going on.
Um, a lot of IV drug use going on, at that particular time.
The Bowery was overrun, this- this, um,  Sunshine Hotel that was right here- that's still here on the corner.
It- it's a- a little SRO.
A- it's- it- it was incredibly overwhelmed with- with a lot of drug use.
So at night, we- you know, we didn't go outside at night.
No, but it was a lot of- Of course.
Cause like, my mom made friends with all the alcoholics b- she made her business  to let the alcoholics in the neighborhood, the homeless men, know who her kids were.
So they knew to look out for us.
And my mom would feed them on Sunday so she knew that we would be okay  coming home.
Like, oh I knew your mother.
Your mother's RD-NAME-2, right?
Yeah, okay.
And like, oh, your mother's from South Carolina.
And she knew.
She knew  how to blend in and make friends with the people  so that we would be okay.
Um,   excuse me.
In this building,   actually there's only six black families, and maybe like  three that came in-   excuse me.
When we came in here.
Excuse me.
I'm sorry, my mouth got really dry.
Get some water.
Would you care for some water?
Yeah, it's very few black families that live here.
He refuses to take more.
Yeah.
He doesn't want m- more black families in this building.
Yeah.
Asian.
Asian and Dominican.
He refuses to take more.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yep.
Well, my brother fell victim of the neighborhood.
Um, he began, you know, smoking marijuana at the age of ten.
Hanging out  in the neighborhood, you know, where my mom didn't want him to go on the Ave, he hung out there.
And then when we moved over to this side of town, he still  hung out with those kids, even though she  kept us in organization.
She- we belonged to different things.
We belonged to a church  um, in the community.
So like, we did everything here on the Lower East Side except, you know, visit relatives that all lived in Queens.
But, um,   my brother fell  into the trap of- of the  hanging out and party scene.
And you know, and he's five years younger than me.
And, um,   he was far more exposed to things that  I wasn't.
Like,  I just came and went, like I had friends from school, but my brother had friends  like, real true friends from the community.
And  he was very much connected to them.
Yeah.
So he started using drugs and hanging out and got a part of the party scene.
And essentially went to jail, and  you know.
So he fell.
He fell into the trap.
Yeah.
Very much so.
Yep.
I think it hasn't really decreased.
I think it's become more indoors, and I think it's gotten into now the bar scene.
So the alcohol has progressed and all of the drugs have gone inside these little night lounges and  clubs and stuff like that.
So I think that's what's going on now.
We have way too many bars in the community.
Just way too many.
I think that the Lower East Side has become over  run  with  bars and lounges.
And the people that spill out into the streets at night is ridiculous.
I don't remember being a kid, having so many bars in this neighborhood.
In fact, we didn't.
In this community, at the time when I was a kid, it was penny candy stores and the local  grocery store.
Everybody had a bodega on every corner, there was a bodega.
And, you know, um,   everybody's family owned a little stand or a sandwich shop or something like that.
There wasn't these bars that you see now.
The bars were not really  in our community.
Like,  now on every block there's like, two and three bars.
And it's ridiculous.
Not even restaurants, but a bar.
And everybody has to have a liquor license because if you're on the Lower East Side, of course you have to have alcohol.
You can't be  a- a restaurant on the Lower East Side and not serve alcohol.
So it is really ridiculous.
You know, like, my kids are so over-exposed.
Like, they always laugh about the people  that are, you know, the neighborhood alcoholics.
And they're like, laughing mommy you shoulda heard the fight last night.
You know, the- the spill outs into the street at three and four o'clock in the morning.
And stuff that they you know, at three or four in the morning you should be sleeping.
Not them, cause they hear everything that goes on.
You know.
The bar fights.
They don't live in our community.
A lot of these people are- they're driving in.
I noticed that.
They get in their cars, they drive in, the drive out.
Yeah.
Yep.
It's not even- I w- I wouldn't even say it's the white folks moving in because, I'm'a be honest with you, even as a kid we had a lot of white families that lived on the Lower East Side.
Except, they were more like, hippie-ish.
As they would say.
And  my mother befriended a lot of them.
You know, even some of the Jewish families, my mother was really close friends with a lot of Jewish families that were, like, they weren't, like,  reli- super religious Jews.
They were like, very inti- like, intimante s- inter-mixing.
A lot of them were inter g- um, inter, um,  racial p- families.
Um, biracial families and, you know, my mom was biracial so  she identified a lot more with them.
And that's, I think that was the reason why she felt more comfortable living on the Lower East Side, because she was  a blended child.
Um,   It was so mixed and so diverse.
And even if you didn't have a lot of money, um,  a lot of the- the white families, they were just like us.
I mean, like, they d- they didn't have a lot of money either, you know, growing up here.
Yeah.
People with lots of money.
Or people that are, like, upper-middle class families  that really don't need to live on the Lower East Side, but they choose to live on the Lower East Side because of  public transportation, the schools are there.
They have the local parks, they can walk to the local parks and it look so cute and, you know.
You know.
It's  so trendy.
It's over trendy.
And to the point where, like, my son and I, you know, my- my kids and I, we always joke around.
Um, because they attended the schools here.
And,  um,  my- my youngest son actually went to one of the newer schools here on the Lower East Side, which  I feel all of the re-gentrified families  decided they wanted to make this school.
And they made the school.
And they- all of their kids went there, cause that's where they wanted their kids to be.
Cause it's like a Upper West Side school at-  on the Lower East Side.
So they created a whole new acronym for the school.
So it's create- it's l- it's on- in rojo right off Houston.
It's called RD-SCHOOL-2- RD-SCHOOL-4 on Columbia Street.
And my youngest sk- son, um, he attended that school for five years of his life.
And  it just was ridiculous.
I mean, the families they, you know, the- the principal told the kids don't mix with the kids from the projects.
That, you know, it's bad, it's- it's not a good place to be.
Go straight home after school.
Um, the kids in the community would actually rob the junior high school kids  and the high school kids that attended the school  because they were carrin-  carrying themselves in this  m- y- we don't belong here, you know.
Like, we have this air about us because that's the way the principal told the kids to be.
Instead of blending with the community and trying to integrate and s- you know, bring the kids in from the community, she took kids from out of the community  into the school,   and created a whole nother situation.
So it's predominantly a white  p- school.
And the families that attend there are very upper income families.
And they're like, oh we- we have a wonderful school here.
And they talk with these airs about them.
And you feel like  oh  my God.
Where did you come from?
You are not  kidding me.
You're on Columbia Street.
You're standing on the corner of Columbia Street.
Are you kidding me?
You- You can't be serious.
You're right on the corner of Columbia Street and you're talking like you came off of Central Park West,  so.
Oh.
Oh, I hate it.
I hate it.
Because they're not using the money to make the community better.
They're using the money  to say,  we're here  and we're here to stay, because we have the money to stay.
And  instead of hiring the families or the children that live here on the Lower East Side,  they're not hiring the children and the families that live here.
They're hiring people from out of the community to come and work at these hotels, work at these, you know, places at- that they're opening up.
And it's disgusting to me.
You know, it- it all started to me, I feel like it started off when they built his Hospice.
There's a Hospice here  for HIV and AIDS and cancer patients here, on- on Rivington Street.
When they built the Rivington House and I said to them, you know, when they-  when they first developed it, they had to ask the people in the community, you know, what they thought about it.
And sign petitions to h-  to build this thing.
And we were like, oh it's great.
You gonna hire people that live on the- oh, yeah we're gonna hire people from the Lower East Side.
Maybe  five percent.
Three percent.
Are from the Lower East Side l- working in that place.
So it just, it's the same thing.
All these little bars and restaurants that were built.
Oh, yeah we're make- we're making a sandwich shop.
And then it become a bar and lounge   the next day.
After the ask you to sign this petition to say they want this building  or- or this, you know, this establishment.
Cause the guy across the street, he did a big-  big thing to us.
Yeah.
Two spots on- o- on this block did the same thing.
They came here cause we're,  you know, the biggest building on the block.
So of course they came this tenants association here and said, hey.
We're building this sandwich shop, you know, we need a petition signed and, you know.
I- Are you gonna serve alcohol?
No, we're not serving alcohol.
That was a lie.
They a-  petitioned for a liquor license.
Next thing we knew,  they weren't a sandwich shop, they were a bar.
Yeah.
So now we have three bars  on the block.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Hm.
I think  what makes up our neighborhood,  um,   I think hard-working people make up this neighborhood.
I think  old Lower East Siders make up this neighborhood.
I think  that they're slowly but surely leaving  or dying off.
And  it's th- it's on the backs of the dinosaurs that were here  in the- in the early sixties, seventies, and eighties.
And that now I think what makes up our neighborhood is a lot of  upper income families that have came back from the suburbs, or  you know, um, moved in from wherever.
From out of town and decided they wanted to live on the Lower East Side.
Um, maybe from the outer boroughs and decided that, you know, the school systems here are better or they don't have to own a vehicle.
It's a, you know, one fare zones.
And, um,  I think that's what's making up our community now.
I think that it's- it's- it's not even a color thing anymore.
I- I- I would say before, I thought it was a color thing.
Not that I see a lot of black families here, cause you really don't see that many.
Unless you go to the Ave.
Um,  you still don't see a lot of black families here.
Now it's mostly Dominican and Asian and  upper income Caucasian families.
I think people that are willing to fight  for the better good  of the whole,  makes up a community to me.
If you're willing to stick it out, like, right now this building is about to go through a transformation.
Because in two thousand and ten our contract with HUD  expires.
And so we just went through that five years ago, and now we're about to go through it again.
Where we have to fight for the right to stay here and still be a low income building.
And the b- the majority of the families that live here are still low income families.
Like, most of them are either on Social Security, Disability, or they're retired people,  or they're low income working class people who don't make any more than about thirty-five thousand a year.
You know, um, the ones that make more than that   they're paying  the top rent, which is- maybe only makes up about five percent of us.
You know, that's not very many.
I don't think so.
I don't- I don't think there's i- i- there's one anymore, because, like, people that live on this side of Houston Street think differently than the people that live in Greenwich Village.
And you see Greenwich Village people are now saying they go all the way over to the West Side.
You know, Greenwich Village used- used to be, like, what we call Alphabet City is now Greenwich Village or Lower East Side.
You know, so they've changed name, they've modified it, they've made it into what they wanted it to be.
Cause I remember it being Alphabet City.
And now it's  the Lower East Side or, you know,  um, East Village.
You know, and you're like, East Village?
Where'd that come from?
It's all Lower East Side to me.
Anything u- beyond Fourteenth Street is Lower East Side.
Anything, um, you know, u- south of Broadway is Lower East Side.
I believe, you know.
So even- it's a big area for me.
Right.
A little nucleus.
I do.
Because I still go to the- the laundromat and see the  friends of my mom's from way back when.
Or I go to the credit union, which  I believe in the credit union because it's one of the older establishments and banking establishments here on the Lower East Side.
So that's one thing I think we all kind of gravitate, the real Lower East Siders, they gravitate to the  credit union because it's  an establishment that we formed  as Lower East Siders.
And, um,  people still want their kids to go to the community schools  because they still believe in them.
You know, like, I'm one of those people that still wanted my kids to go to the community schools.
And, um,  you know.
I mean,  I guess it's because I- I- I still believe that  there's hope for the Lower East Side.
I still believe that people just need to understand  we, the true Lower East Siders, are the people that have been here for more than ten years of their life.
They understand what it means to be on the Lower East Side.
You know, I still believe in going to the supermarket here, even though it's crazy expensive.
Um,  I still believe in using local parks because I understand the Parks Department.
The library, I still believe in the library system.
I still believe in going to the community board meetings, when I h- can get a chance to get there.
And going to the precinct meetings.
Trying, you know, any way to stay connected and refocus.
Meeting with my local senators and congress people and, you know, um, city councilmen.
Knowing them by name because  this is where I'm from.
And this is what I want them to understand, that we still have pride in our community.
You know, u- give or take.
Yeah.
Keeping the struggle alive because they need to understand that  okay, yeah.
These  crazy people can move up in here, and they go to college here for maybe all of four, five years.
And then they leave.
They get the money and they leave.
Or  they purchase something and they decide they wanna stay.
And then that- they think that that becomes a part of ownership.
And I always say,  you don't know what it was like to sh- s- t- s- to sweat here.
My mother sweat here.
My mother, she bled here basically.
And she died here on the Lower East Side.
So I mean, you know, you can't tell me what it's like to be on the Lower East Side when you didn't do any of those things.
You just moved in.
One day, you found an affordable apartment and you just moved in.
You know, or you were lucky enough to, you know, come from wherever  and you settled here.
So you can't tell me that.
You weren't here fighting the drug wars.
You weren't here when the prostitutes were running.
And- and people had to go outside with baseball bats.
You weren't here.
So  you know, you can't-  you can't say that, so.
Yeah.
I think, um, the credit union sticks out for me.
I think, um, Tenth Street park which is Tompkins Square Park.
That sticks out for me.
I remember the good, the bad, and the ugly of Tenth Street park.
All the good, all the bad.
The hippy-   the- the hippy, uh, f- fire f- fire days.
When they used to do the tents and the riots in Tenth Street park.
And, you know, um, my mom taking us there every Sunday after church.
I remember  Diva Birdy's, um, on First Avenue, going there as a kid.
I remember,  um,  you know,  FDR Park, which is down on the, all the way by the waterside.
Hanging out in FDR Park on a Sunday, listening to the guys playing the- the bongos and the- the percussion  instrument.
And, um,  you know.
Watching the baseball game, watching the boats sail by on- on- I- I mean, I-  I don't think-  I don't think there- there's such a vivid memory for me  in Queens.
Although I remember some parts of living in Queens also.
But I think all of my-  my memories of my foundation years  were built here on the Lower East Side.
Um,  I- Just s- seeing the- the local delis and everybody, you know, the mom and pop shops shutting down and people leaving the community.
The doctor's offices that are no longer here anymore and, you know,  all of that.
The churches that shut down, the schools that are no longer.
I mean,  I remember all of these things.
You know.