When you come home, like Saturday,  evening, with your shoe shine box,  all the guys knew that you had um,  been out working,  so they try to shake you down, take your money.
So, I sta- I noticed that um,  there was a music store  up on Utica Avenue  I called Sam Ash.
And uh,  I stopped in there one  one evening, I said I asked him if he wanted a shoe shine,  he said, yeah.
And I said, you know if you leave your- h- I n- he was open seven days  said if you leave your um  if I could leave my box here overnight  I said, I'll shine your shoes for free.
Know, i-  every week.
So, he said, okay.
So um, so I made a deal with Sam.
Nice guy.
Really n- nice guy.
But he paid me anyways and flipped me a quarter for the shoe shine anyway.
But I um,  used to leave my box there Saturday.
Sunday,  I'd just come pick my box up then go  p- on East and Parkway and shine.
But then I-  Once I started working in the- in the- in the repair shop,  or the service shop,  uh,  you know I  gave up shining.
because y- you know, I just was trying to make m-  you know,  better myself as far as  making money was concerned, just cause the- oh, I had other things I used to do all the time, there was people  after school, I would go to their house, older people.
Uh, they couldn't go out, I'd go get them the newspaper or anything they wanted from the store.
Anything.
Uh.
Anyway I could make a dollar, I was trying to do it.
I.
At that time, I think we called it you know, being a hu- you were hustling, really.
Know.
Came very very natural.
I see the kids today with their gadgets and their skateboards and everything.
If we wanted a skateboard,  we used to make our scooters.
We used to  get two pieces of uh, two by fours,  and nail 'em together and get one old skate  or two old skates, whatever the best  wheels were on 'em and we nail 'em to the bottom  and you had yourself a-  a scooter.
And go all over with it.
Used to go to the movies  uh,  every Sunday.
used to shine in the morning,  and then in the s- afternoon, we'd come home,  go to movies.
I lived in the movies, oh man.
A lot of cowboy movies.
I think I've seen every old cowboy movie ever made.
Plus i-  l-  you know, whole lot of other stuff too, but  I used to love cowboy movies.
John Wayne was never my favorite And I co- Oh.
Really?
There was Allen Rocky Lane Um, so many  other guys, there was uh  uh, who was- there was so many.
That guy who played Red Rider, there uh  um,  um,  uh, Wild Bill Elliot.
Um.
I forgot the name of the guy who played Red Rider.
But there was Hoot Gibson, Hop Along Cassidy, Mm.
I can  recognize him  right now.
You go to so many cowboy movies, it become  part of your culture.
We come out of the movie, walking home, hear a noise, or something like you get ready to draw for your gun.
I- You know, you think you  walking around carrying a gun all the time.
My neighborhood was very unique.
Uh.
I wanted to, and I haven't done it yet.
I wanted to start writing a book about our old neighborhood.
Because the block that that I lived on  it was  about  one th-  third apartment buildings  and two thirds brown stones.
and that block had over two hundred teenagers on it  from the time that I- that I l- I was living there from si-  nineteen forty-one  until nineteen   nineteen fifty-two, fifty-three.
And  all of these kids.
There was so many kids on this block.
And they had friends  and their friends used to come on the block  anytime, particularly in the warm weather in the summer time.
You come on that block, you think it was a block party going on, it was so many kids.
And uh.
Uh, I had so many friends.
A lot of 'em are gone now.
A lot of 'em are passed away, lot are retired, went south  and the whole block has changed, but I mean  it was something.
Uh.
Y- yeah.
Well, m- the- the- the guy  the block was had so many kids, they sort of split it in half.
One half of the block was uh,  well, we call ourselves the Gay Nineties and the other half was the Winos cause they used to like to drink wine.
But the guys used to play stick ball But uh, n- n-  I never liked stick ball or baseball.
Only thing I kind of liked was football but nobody wanted to play football cause I like to play rough tackle, they wanted to play tag.
I w- I like to play rough tackle.
I learned to do that down south.
I used to- them guys down there were so tough.
They made me- they made me t- yeah.
But uh, my- my favorite pastime was watching the girls turn  double dutch.
I sit there and watch them do that all day long.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I- I worked in that- that  mm  that shop there  for years until uh,  til I was about eighteen years old.
At least four years.
And I learned a lot about repairing cars, fixing cars,  and um,  of course, driving cars.
And um.
It was good.
By the time, at eighteen, nineteen years old, I  figured it's time to move on.
And I  got a job  in a factory  and the day that  the- the- th- the day that I went in  to get uh, a factory job,  that's when they  up  the um  minimum wage from seventy-five cents an hour to a dollar an hour.
So you work forty hours, you got forty dollars  and you come home with thirty-six.
And that's about the time when- that's when I just about turned twenty, so Huh?
This was uh, yeah, this was in the- in the beginning of the- the fifties.
Yeah.
Around f- fifty-one, fifty-two.
Yeah.
It's a big pay increase if you were getting seventy-five cent, but it wa-  wasn't that big to me because I started out getting uh,  a dollar an hour.
Muh.
We made gold trimming for eyeglass frames.
Like, you have a frame there.
Right along the edges there, sometimes they have gold trimmings.
Yeah.
And I was- I was a- On eyeglasses, yeah.
And uh, we had um,  what'd they call it?
A p- a press?
Used to put the little gold thing in there,  ploom, boom  or  someone would foot press and they  stamp it, and would shape the piece of gold  and then the- n- had another  uh,  uh,  the girls over there, and they would weld it  the little pins on it.
And they  you know, it a like a  assembly line type of operation.
And uh,  yeah, I did that for a few years.
until  the Union tried to come in  and  they tried to bully me  and they wanted me to stay outside  and h- and hang out w- w- with some of the other guys who sat and took-  we gonna get the Union in, I said, well a- a- you know, I can't afford to man, cause  I just got married, I had a baby.
And no way.
I ain't staying outside  Well they, uh,  tried to pull one of them gorilla acts.
You know.
Bogart  you know, don't, you know,  Well you- you  everybody's gonna do this  wasn't everybody.
There was maybe a half a dozen guys in the shop,  but the rest of 'em  were just scared to even come to work.
But I come to work, and I went outside, and they telling me I'm breaking the l-  breaking the l-  the line.
I ain't breaking nothing cause the Union ain't in there yet.
I said, and what are you gonna give me while we're out waiting for the Union to come in?
Nothing.
I said that's right, you're gonna give me absolutely nothing.
So,  you know  just leave me alone.
So, they went and got this great big guy, he sposta been an enforcer and he was supposed to enforce it.
He-  he threatened me when I came out.
Well, he didn't threaten me, one of the other guys threaten me, telling me  I-  what I better not do.
I said, you know what,  cause I had come to- to work that day,  I had my shotgun.
Cause in them days, you could l- I-  I used to do a little hunting.
And you could legally  carry your gun in your car.
And uh,  As long as i- it was broke open and wasn't loaded.
And uh,  I said y- and I come out  I was ready i- you know, if he- w- put his hand on me, do something, I was gonna do him in, but  he wasn't there, he disappeared.
And of- couple of the other guys  the- the- the guys who were out there  and I said, you know what, this is not worth it.
I said, I can get a job  doing anything for this kind of money.
I said- so,  I never went back.
I told the- I told the boss, I said, you know, it ain't got nothing to do with you.
Except these guys here, they  it's not worth my effort to try to hurt somebody in order  make forty dollars an hour.
So, He said he understood.
So, I went about three or four blocks away on kings  on uh,  Queen's Boulevard.
And uh, right there, Fifty-eighth Street.
and got a job in a used car lot, cleaning cars cause I knew how to do that.
And instead of making forty dollars a  a- an hour, I was making sixty dollars a week.
Which was a big pay jump.
Yeah.
And you know, if you wanted to um,  wanted a little extra money, cause i- i- you know, you.
I paid my- my rent, which like eighteen, twenty dollars a week.
Course, I had a little, uh, what they call a,  a studio.
Cause I only had one baby at that time .
And if you wanted some more money to do something else with, you know, you had to figure another way to get it.
So, I did get a part time job at night working night in a gas station.
Also, if you need a little extra money, I went to the blood bank and I stick it in there, I pump 'em out a pint of blood And uh,  we you- they start out giving you five dollars and  after.
After certain amount of uh  time, you know, after a couple months, they give you six and it went up to eight dollars.
So  I was-  you was sposta come once a month, but I was every two weeks man, I would give them a pint of blood.
And take the money and go buy a bag of reefer, roll it up, sell half of it and get my money back.
So I have extra money for uh, you know, extra money for uh, for myself for the week.
And .
Mm.
I had to do it.
You do what you gotta do.
It was very interesting.
Yeah thirty-two.
I'm seventy-five.
I know.
I hear that.
Yeah.
I hear it, yeah.
Well.
Oh.
Yeah.
Well, in around fifty four, I went into- I went into the simonizing business for myself.
Um.
With a partner.
Well I th- they call  today they call it de-  car detailing.
Wa- No painting.
All we did was clean the cars.
We compounded the paint, waxed it,  shampooed the interiors.
If they had a vinyl top, we cleaned the vinyl top, and washed the motors.
That was it.
And I was doing it for uh, used car dealers,  um,  parking garages,  body shops.
And then I got contracts with new car dealers, they come they- in them days, th- they used to come  on ships  and they used to cover 'em with this stuff called cosmoline.
It's like-  it's like  a really, really heavy wax.
And you needed kerosene or gasoline to wash it off.
Now, they put 'em in a container,  and bring 'em.
You don't have to put nothing on 'em.
And they clean up much easier.
But them days, man.
They were hard to clean.
Uh.
w-  I had a good little business going, I-  I had as many as a half a dozen guys working for me.
And uh, we were cleaning  we  easy- we cleani- w-  we could turn out a car  w- easy- I could turn out a car almost a hour by myself.
I'd do two cars in the morning,  and three in the afternoon.
By hand.
This was before they even got a machine to do 'em with.
But by the time I got these guys, I wind up- I had two machines, I had a partner  we had two machines.
And we were turning out a s- we was turning out a car every half an hour.
Easy.
You do f-  twelve, fifteen, eighteen cars a day.
I find out what they're getting today, I- I- k- I say I should have stayed in the business.
We were charging- for the used car dealers we were charging eight dollars.
For private people, we were charging fifteen.
Uh.
For the used car dealers, we were charging, let's see.
The heck would we get?
I think we would charging five or six dollars to shampoo the interiors.
And uh, three dollars for a motor wash.
Fo- for private people, we got eight dollars to shampoo the in-  the interiors.
And same price for the motor wash, three dollars cause  y- we used a chemical  so- most of the time, we used kerosene and then, um,  hosed it down, but otherwise, you used chemical on it.
W- a guy came along and he was selling chemicals,  a degreasing chemical, and it worked pretty good, so we tried using that.
Worked faster too.
Uh, that was the story.
But uh, we did pretty good.
I was just talking to my friend of mine over the weekend, she said they get like two hundred dollars to do a car.
I said you got to be kidding me.
And i- she's a- a good friend.
I known her for twe-  thirty years.
And the- I used to do her car for her, and still do occasionally,  if she wants to get it done.
And uh.
she wants to give me like  forty do- I said, what are you crazy?
I said  you know, I- I- I sometimes would take a twenty dollar bill off of her, and a- I figured that was just too much.
Just to  make her feel good, but uh.
She said, you go somewhere, this is what they charge now.
We charged a dollar to wash a car.
I don't know what they get now.
I think  I went with her daughter to get her car washed, and I think it was five or six dollars just to wash her car.
I said, wow.
But it's a different wold now.
Eh- I mean, when I- I went to school  e- when I went to RD-SCHOOL-5 and when I went high school, the subway was a nickel.
And you gotta pay for transfer it if you wanna catch a trolley car when you got on.
Now, they talking about going up to three dollars.
During the war, you know what a pack of cigarettes cost?
They cost twenty cents.
And the soldiers could get them for fifteen cents.
They had- they had a- uh,  it was like like a soldier e- uh, uh,  soldier's special.
They was selling s- uh, Sanos,  was a- which was a brand name of cigarettes.
They were fifteen cents a pack.
And you could go at  any candy store and buy loosies.
Loosies were a- uh, a penny a piece.
I seen somebody w- w- selling loosies today.
I think they're about twenty-five or fifty cents now for one cigarette.
Said you must really have to have a  cigarette bad.
You got a serious jones.
You about to pay fifty cents for one cigarette?
Two dollars,  would buy you a carton of cigarettes.
Cigarettes today, I think are about six, seven dollars a pack right?
Something like that.
I never smoked in my life, so I don't car- Never bothered me.
It's ridiculous.
Oh.
Um.
Back then.
Mm.
There a lot of differences in language.
I rm- I remember when uh,  what's his name?
The pre-  The president's father.
When uh,  George Bush Senior was running for office,  he- he had this guy  who was running with him.
What was his name?
Dan Quayle.
I remember making such a- a- a  a big joke.
All the comedians were laughing because  he was went to some school and the kid  spelled the  potato and he  s-  told the kid i- i- i-  it was wrong it was sposta  be a E on the end.
And they just thought this was so funny  And I said to myself, you know, I don't know what has happened  in the last ha- half a century.
but, when I went to school back in-  in Poughkeepsie,  I spelled potato with a E.
And I started looking in the dictionaries, I couldn't find it.
And I was with RD-NAME-2, and we were cleaning out somebody's apartment.
And the people that moved and they had all these old books in there.
And I found a old dictionary.
I think  it was published  back in the twenties.
It was a big one.
A- and I took it with me, I looked in there.
potato was spelled with a E.
I said I wasn't wrong and neither was Dan Quayle, but nobody would speak up and say you know, tha- maybe that's the way he learned how to spell.
But it's  language changes all the time.
All the time  It's that's why they call it a living thing.
That's why they use Latin as a dead language because it doesn't change.
Mm.
Yeah.
Particularly w-  i- i- i- since they got these computers, man that's a whole other language right there.
You know?
Uh, I've got two girls and two boys and one foster son.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
No.
Um.
One son, my oldest son, he just moved to Oklahoma,  a few months ago.
Met some girl on the internet.
She came here,  and said, no, I don't wanna stay in New York.
So, uh, they got married, she- they went back to Oklahoma.
My oldest daughter, she lives in Seattle, I just spoke to her last night.
My youngest daughter lives out in Queens.
And uh,  with her- she's married and got two boys.
My oldest daughter w-  was married, she's divorced, but she's got three boys.
Uh.
Eighteen  I think, thirteen,  and thirty-one.
Yeah.
Then I got, uh,  I got step-kids  in Poland.
My wife, my  last wife she was Polish.
And uh,  She's got uh  she had da- she's got a daughter.
And her daughter has uh,  two daughters and a son.
And one of the th-  her son,  and one of the daughters are married and they got kids, so I guess I got  I got three   three step-grandkid.
Yeah.
Great grands.
Great grands.
That's what they are.
Three.
Yeah.
Buried two wives.
From cancer, they had cancer.
Yeah.
My first wife was still alive.
She just got  remarried about  a few weeks ago.
She's getting ready to sell her house and move down south somewhere.
in Fifty-two.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fifty-two.
Yeah.
Uh.
No.
I moved up to the Bronx first.
I had a business up there, I had a used car business up there.
For  few years, I had a apartment up there.
And uh,  and then from the Bronx,  I got an apartment in the City, but then I started working in Brooklyn.
In a trucking company.
Cause tha- actually, I've been self employed all that time.
And uh,  only  time I wasn't self employed, was when I started working for this trucking company.
I knew the guy.
He was a friend of mine, know him for many years,  when I was in the car business.
So, um,  I went to work for him.
I wasn't there for long.
About three and a half years.
And then, when I left him,  I bought myself a van and  I started making deliveries here in the City.
And that's when I started looking for an apartment here inn the city, so I had an apartment in- in the City.
Wound up with two apartments in the City.
One ap-  On a Hundred and s-  Seventy-eighth Street  right off Riverside Drive,  a little street called Pinehurst Avenue.
My nephew's staying up there now.
It's a huge apartment.
You know, four bedrooms  two baths, big living room.
Big dining room.
Yeah.
It's a big place.
No.
No.
It originally belonged to some college professor.
And  he broke up with his wife, so he-  he got another apartment right up the street from it,  about three or four blocks up,  on the other side of the George Washington Bridge, but on the same street.
And he l- leased  out rooms in that apartment  to uh, some of his students  that went to school there.
So, when I got it,  I ha- it was a ad in the paper, one of the students was moving out, she wanted to rent the room out.
So, I went up there, and I checked it out and I said, alright.
The guy was paying  paying two hundred sixty-five dollars  a month for that apartment.
And rent was The whole apartment.
And the students, they were paying like  uh, fifty dollars a month.
And u- this was  this was in the seveties.
And I said, okay I'll take it, and this  the student, the girl that moved out was okay.
Put he le- he left two other kids in there.
One was a girl, one was a guy, and they were such slobs.
And I said to that man, they- they gotta go.
When I finally got rid of them, cause I s- I two sixty-five, I could handle that by myself.
Which I did do.
So, when I got them out.
But I mean, this one girl man, she had cats,  and h- and she used to uh walk  no, she used to empty the cat l- the cat litter into the toilet.
And she had a little dog, and she used to walk the dog in the hallway.
There was a rug in there.
A- And the place stunk like hell.
It was a beautiful place.
I said, you know what?
Y- Y'all gotta go.
And the guy, he wa- oh, he was just as bad.
But he was  he kept all his nastiness to himself in his little   his little bedroom.
I got him out of there and uh,  I cleaned it up t- to some degree.
I did rent out one place, then my nephew wanted to  who- who uh  who was living in Springfield Mass at the time, he wanted  a place in the city.
He loved the city.
So, I let him ha-  let him come down, he moved in.
And that's when I met my wife.
And I started hanging out  with her and we got married.
And even though, you know,  I still had the place up there, I said  I d- I wanted to get rid of it.
I said, okay.
So, my nephew still got it.
He's doing okay up there.
Mm.
And rent has changed a lot, he pays over a G note now.
Yeah.
I know, it is.
It is.
And they ain't little bedrooms either.
They're big.
It had- see, there's one bedroom right off the kitchen, it's a little small bedroom with this a-  it has its own bath.
Which was the maid's room, so you know how big this place was.
Yeah.
Huh?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I wa-  fact, it was Eighty-one when I come down here.
Uh  Avenue  B was the borderline Mm.
Nobody went past Avenue B.
In fact,  I'd never even park my vehicle down there, cause every time I did, somebody would break into it.
Uh, ha- halfway down the block, which was right where-  where uh, s-  I lived.
You know, that was it.
But now, Avenue B,  and Avenue A ain't that much difference you know on the Avenue  C  I mean, this  the East Village is  not only spread all the way down, it's spread south too.
Spread south all the way down to Delancey Street and past Delancey  and still going.
Um.
Yeah.
And uh, I mean they  Tompkins Square Park, they didn't call it a needle park for nothing.
I mean, you just walked through the park you see  people in there shooting up in the middle of the day.
It was, it was kind of outrageous, you know.
And uh.
A lot of changes came place-  took place when Giuliani came into office.
Cause he cracked down of a lot of stuff, cause people used to do things,  things used to happen.
Uh, I had a- I had a bar.
After I uh- I had the delivery business.
Um, after my wife passed away, she passed away in Eighty-seven, so.
I went into the  some guy, h- he'd been asking me to come  he wanted a partner in the bar, so I said okay.
So, I had to work there for about a year or two.
And um, you know.
Like bought into it.
And the bar uh, over in Long Island City.
That was cool.
But, uh, after Giuliani came into office,  was a totally different ball game.
Used to see things happen all the time.
P- P- people used to see pe- Uh, excu-  Used to see people get killed.
These guys standing- Oh yeah!
I'd been sit- be behind the bar, see a guy cross the street, .
Bam!
Bam!
Bam!
He shot the guy, walked away.
The guy died.
He wasn't- everybody knew who it was, he wound up going to jail for it, I don't know, maybe he's out now.
But they just killed each other all the time, and it never hit the papers.
The cops picked up  there was a guy used to clean the bar  when we used to close up.
Used to call him Froggy.
Really nice guy.
But, he had a habit, you know, he was smo- he smoked crack.
But, he wasn't a thief.
And he- he wanted to make a honest dollar and he would uh,  you know, he'd do odd jobs for you.
But, they called him Froggy cause he had these great big eyes, you know, y- bubbled out.
And you know, he's kind of a homely looking dude.
And people used to make fun of him all the time, you know.
And, in fact, one guy  uh,  one of the numbers guys  used to make fun of him all the time.
and Froggy told me say, you keep making fun of me,  he says one morning, you gonna wake up one morning and look just like me.
And the guy said he never made fun of him again.
Said scared the fool out of him.
Well, anyway, the cops w- you know, they  the cops picked-  picked Froggy up one day.
In front of everybody, picked him up  they s- told him, they sm- suspect of him something searched him, everything.
They suspected him of having dope, or something.
And then they thought they wo- took him and arrested him.
But, they would i- they send these people down there to get him  They said no, he was never arrested.
Couple days later, his body start floating in the East River.
Now, stuff like this used to go on all the time, but was never  i- anything investigated about it.
Who knows.
It's I mean, the k  m k- they the one that picked him up.
It was a cop  they used- they called him Ram-  Uh, a robocop.
And he- he- they had a- of course, they had a  precinct right in the projects there.
And uh.
W- Of- one of my customers of- in fact, he was a friend of mine, he  used to be in there all the time.
And uh, one day, they said that  he was coming out and Robocop called him over  for something, they went over there, was talking to him,  and  pulled away from him, Robocop put a chokehold on him and killed him.
And  that upset a lot of people in the projects cause this guy didn't bother nobody.
He was a good guy.
Did he sell drugs and stuff?
Yeah, he did.
But, you know, that's all he did.
Tha- That ain't no reason to kill nobody.
And this just went on all the time.
But, after Giuliani came in, man, a lot of stuff changed.
Every precinct had to be accountable  for what the heck they were doing.
I mean, Giuliani, he's no angel, cause he did a lot of d-  really weird dumb things.
A lot of weird dumb things.
No.
No.
No.
No.
Nothing ever happened to me.
I wasn't lucky, I  know, I'm- I'm- I'm alert.
Girl asked me,  cause you know, we- I had oh  a premises permit  for a- at the bar, so you know.
Long Island City.
Mm.
Right over  Right over the bridge.
Queens Bridge.
Had a premises permit, you know, and  e-  obvious- I should stay on the property, I, you know.
I could keep my gun, but I don't wanna be showing  anybody  just walking around with my gun because,  this tells people that you're afraid of 'em, it sends the wrong message.
But,  they knew that the w-  we had the permit, and they knew  particularly, when it's closing time, and I start pulling down the gates and everything, that's when  you got people try to do stuff.
So, that's when I used to you know, stick it in my belt.
And uh, Yeah.
Huh?
No.
I never had to pull it on somebody.
I was going home one- early one morning.
Girl asked me said, how you doing little one?
I said, fine.
Says  you got your gun?
I said why?
You wa- planning to rob me?
No, no, I'm just asking.
I said, well don't ask me unless you're planning rob me and then I'll- you'll find out.
So, she didn't ask me no more.
You know,  Why do you want to know what I got?
You gotta straighten people out right away.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
I .
Yeah.
Yeah, I was at the bar at the time.
And uh,    Yeah.
I  look, I think it was more of the cops that was doing the rioting, man but.
Yeah.
Huh?
Yeah, yeah, uh.
They- they get these guys into the uh into the- the school  to train 'em to be cops.
None of 'em live in the neighborhood they come from.
Staton Island, Long Island,  you know.
They- they come from a totally different element,  and uh,  I don't know I- there's something very much lacking in the training.
Because uh,  far as I'm concerned,  everybody that doesn't live in their neighborhood or that type of neighborhood  is a criminal, and they're trying to make a difference by  busting 'em.
Uh, you know, a friend of mine wa-  he- he- he's probably retired now, he had been a cop a long time.
He told me,  he's a black guy, he said when- when he- he-  when he became a cop,  he says, the um,  sergeant, or lieutenant whoever it was, told him  the guys when uh, he said if you wanna make detective fair,  is all you have to do  whenever you're on your beat.
He says, when you see a car coming,  if there's black guys in it, stop it.
Said ask 'em for their papers  search 'em.
He says because  nine times out of ten,  he says  you're gonna, one of 'em gonna wind up being dirty  and he says, this way you can bust them.
He says you'll make detective before-  before you know it.
And this is this- this come.
Of course it is.
And but the- you know, this is- this is what was happening then.
Well, I'm sure it does, but it's not as open and blatant as it used to be, but.
It's n-  Like I said, it's a different world.
And if you live long enough, you gotta make a lot of adjustments and getting used to the new stuff.
Yeah.
It's a nice neighborhood now.
Lot of lot of yuppies.
I think  everybody  in the neighborhood got  ticked off  when the- when they're  before they had that stock ha- st- um.
Stock market crash.
When did that happen?
Eighty-seven?
Around there.
Before they had that man, these yuppies, man, they  they're the ones who ran the prices up on everything.
And they had  all these art galleries in this neighborhood.
They would open up a art gallery and the  I don't know  who these artists were.
But the limousines would be double parked, and you'd have all this wine and cheese and I mean, t- they just- they was like one great big party going on  at every other block had all these um  art galleries.
And  that ruined, uh,  a lot of uh, the- the p- the poor people in this neighborhood, they couldn't afford to stay.
Right across the street from me, over there on Sixth Street, there's this guy  he had been over there for a decade.
He had a little store.
It was a handyman store.
You know, if you had a plumbing problem or an electrical problem, or locks.
He was good with locks and stuff like that.
He was paying  two hundred dollars a month.
His landlord- his lease was up, his la-  his landlord told him, he says, you're getting a new lease.
From now on, it's gonna be two thousand dollars a month.
He said  from two to two thousand?
He says yeah.
He says, you don't want it?
Now, he already had a- a gallery lined up for it and bam.
He had to go out, he went to Brooklyn.
He opened up in Brooklyn.
Right in Williamsburg over there around Bedford Avenue, And uh, a gallery moved in where he is.
And.
They ran a lot of  people out of business.
A lot of people.
And them buildings they're fixing over there now, on Sixth Street,  Yeah.
You know why they're fixing 'em?
When they made the f- the first movie The Godfather.
That's a long time ago.
Tha- that's where they did a lot of the filming in the- And they painted 'em all green.
In fact the block association was formed at that time.
Yeah.
And uh.
The guy that owned the buildings, was  old guy.
Tall, thin.
He look like a s- walking skeleton.
And he couldn't even- it'd take him a long time to walk down the street, but he finally passed away.
And once he passed away  uh, the people wh- right here on Avenue A  across the street from Key Foods.
They're the ones that wound up  with the uh, authority, whatever  to sell his property.
So, that's what they did.
And that's why they're gutting it and fixing it up.
They changed.
There was nobody li- there was w- There was one or two people living in- in one of the buildings but not in all of them.
Cause they were just about boarded up.
The old man lived there in there somewh- It was kind of.
One building I think was totally abandoned.
But uh, I guess the old man must have gotten some good money  from making that movie.
Because he kept them buildings a long time.
Without doing nothing to 'em.
Had them all painted dark green on the outside.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
And you seen her?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, no.
No.
No.
There was nobody in there.
Mm.
Yeah.
I like it now.
Yeah.
Well at that time, yeah, people I mean, people were putting signs up, uh, uh.
Fight inflation.
Kill a yuppie.
Eh.
But i-  the yuppies lost their money after the stock market crashed and they couldn't afford these  art galleries and  cheese and wine fests.
And that was the end of that.
N- oh, it's very different.
They got  from  on Third Avenue  and Fourteenth Street, up and down that strip over there.
I counted.
There's seven dormitories  for NYU.
There's thousands of young kids coming in here now.
And they're all- they're they're  the week- well, it used to be just the weekends  but it usually starts now  you can see it every night.
But, Thursday  from Thursday on, if the weather's nice, forget about it.
You can't even walk They're all over the place.
And then-  they usually got friends, and they're bringing their friends in from- And you can always tell, i-  I- you can look at somebody and know they don't live in the neighborhood.
And you can almost tell where they come from, oh th- you could tell by the way they walk, they're from Staten Island.
And the Long Island ones, you can always tell with their twang.
Long Island Twang.
Before I got rid of my van and everything, when I ha- when I had my other van,  I'd come home, it was so crowded on the weekends  I find out a-  When I finish work, and I fi- when I finally find a spot, instead of going upstairs,  I sit there and wait, and I start to see the-  the uh,  people coming,  looking for parking spots.
And uh.
I s- s- say, you going out?
I say, yeah, give me twenty dollars and you can have this spot.
I sold a spot a couple of times for twenty bucks.
And I go park somewhere in the neighborhood where, you know, way down the- Yeah.
Way down there.
But I know they need it.
Particularly a guy who's got a car with a couple of girls when he wants to impress 'em.
He'll throw out that twenty in a minute.
Yeah.
Oh, I retired twelve years ago.
Yeah, I help RD-NAME-2 out.
Sitting around, watching TV, vegetate.
Start turning  turning into uh,  uh- uh- uh,  a dead person.
No, you start de- disintegrating.
You know, almost literally.
You got to do something with your mind, body's gotta do something.
Just help RD-NAME-2 out whenever he needs help.
Yeah.
Oh we  we- fo- he's not as busy  doing the same things that he was doing, but when I first started helping him,  the people were moving out of  the apartments,  and then the landlord would want the apartment painted, so that's what we would do.
We'd paint the apartment.
And uh.
Matter of fact, uh, I was helping him do some iron work too on the fire escapes.
Cause, I have a license for welding and burning stuff like that from the fire department, I got that when I was  doing trucking.
When I t- was in trucking, I wasn't driving the truck.
This was a company  that uh, we used to get these trucks in  and we'd either cut 'em up,  and we were building  dump trucks,  tow trucks,  and anything hydraulic I could fix.
So, that's what we was doing.
Yeah.
Then RD-NAME-2 got  very paranoid about climbing  ladders and fixing up fire escapes.
He g- ye- think he- yeah, he got.
All of a sudden, he got thing with the uh  fear of heights.
He didn't wanna do it no more.
I said, well I'll do it, don't worry about it, I don't care about the height.
He wouldn't let me do it either.
Yeah.
He wouldn't take the job, so.
No, nothing happened.
Just happened.
You know  just like  he- you know, he's a motorcycle guy, as you.
And he- oh at the time.
Huh?
Yeah, but he doesn't go up there to ride a motorcycle.
He goes up there for, uh, he's got a farm up there.
However,  I mean, he used to ride all the time.
He has so many bikes.
He had at least a half a dozen  working bikes.
Plus al- uh, maybe another  half a dozen to a dozen bikes that weren't quite working.
They all needed-  They all needed something.
But the- and he'd fix bikes for people.
He was a- he's a  expert uh, motorcycle mechanic.
Well, they're all over the place now.
He's got some up  in West Chester.
He used to have them in the backyards and the basement, it was in the basement where he lived.
And the landlord, when he had to move man, he had to get all that stuff out of there.
Go to his sister's house, said yeah, she said no man, you got to get these bikes out of here.
So, yeah.
He lived across the street from me on Sixth Street.
Yeah.
So, finally had to get rid of 'em.
But, what happened was  one of our friends, guys used to ride with us.
Not us.
With him.
Cause I don't ride.
I've owned a few bikes, but I've never  actually ridden on.
And this guy, nice guy,  he bought a  fact, he bought a  he got a nice little apartment right across the street over here.
Just before you get to that French restaurant there.
There's a gate there and a  there's a yard.
Yeah.
Before you get there He got this apartment over there, and I-  one of- one of- one of our friends  and uh  he was  riding his bike.
He was over there on uh.
S- what the heck is that little street?
There's Fourth Avenue, there's another little street over there  by Union Square that comes out.
What the heck is the name?
No.
Past, going west.
University Place.
Yeah.
The guy was making a turn and the bike slipped.
And uh, he was making a turn or trying to pass a truck.
And he went underneath the truck, and the truck ran over him, killed him.
Bam!
Just like that.
And RD-NAME-2 we, you know, we had a wake, his girlfriend was came, and everything.
I-  it was a very sad situation.
In fact,  RD-NAME-2's girlfriend, she said she had seen the whole thing from her office window.
And uh, it was very very bad.
And RD-NAME-2 hasn't ridden since.
He had- he got like this- he don't wanna ride no more.
Yeah.
Huh?
Yeah.
I never learned.
Oh yeah, I w- I'd ride in a minute.
Yeah.
No.
I'm not afraid.
Kind of depends upon how fast you're going.
I'm not- I'm- I am not into speeding anymore.
I di- I had enough of that when I was in the car business.
In the simonizing business, which they call uh,  detailing now.
Yeah.
Well.
Well, I think with what I tell you can.
Do it again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How was your interview with RD-NAME-2?
Yeah.
Oh, it was that long?
Oh, that's before he went in the hospital.
His apartment.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, since he came out of the hospital, he's like a different person.
Oh.
Well, that has a lot to do with it.
Yeah.
Cause the meds that he's one, I've known.
I know people who are on it.
And the few people that I know are on it, man, they have to take that the rest of their lives.
Uh, I forgot the name of it.
It'll  cross my mind in a minute.
But.
It's- it's like a tranquilizer.
It keeps you mellow.
No, it's not valium.
Something like it, yeah.
Yeah.
Cause he used to be a firecracker.
Yeah.
No.
Really?
You're kidding.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He, oh man.
He used walk- he- he used to walk, cause he used to have sometimes a half a dozen pitbulls he used to walk the street with.
Mothers, fathers of kids  Man, he was walking up, people just gave him the whole-  the whole street, man.
Yeah.
Yeah, but.
RD-NAME-2 saved his life.
Yeah.
Cause if it wasn't for RD-NAME-2 getting him  th- getting him in there getting the right treatment and everything, man.
The guy was not in a position to-  to help himself.
So, RD-NAME-2 helped him.
He really.
Yeah.
Otherwise, he'd  no way.
And RD-NAME-2's done that for a few people man.
He-  he's- he's good like that.
He really is.