That's my wife.
But.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-3 moms.
Thank you.
Uh-huh.
Exactly.
Um.
Anybody who's willing-  who's willing to represent  the Lower East Side, is a part of it.
We don't discriminate.
We motivate.
And Oh, definitely.
It's all good.
But, don't come in here and act like you like I said earlier.
Don't come in here, look at me like I'm the outsider.
And like- like I was telling 'em- another example, when I was telling them detectives who's  who pulled me over for no apparently reason.
I was telling them, like  Okay.
I understand you said I fit the prescription.
Okay.
I heard it for thirty-nine years.
But,  this black man here,  it's not the average black man.
I'm tryna do something with myself.
I tryna  do something for the community.
As we speak now, I'm trying to set this interview up as  like, I had to use you and everything else.
Like, she's right there, coming across the street.
That's why- Like.
Like that's why they was looking and when I passed you the book, I had to let them know, listen.
I have my-  my book in my- my thay.
I wanna know, can I pass it to her.
And  like, you got the wrong Black man.
This Black man here tryna put out a book speaking about the community.
Tryna do murals to give back to the community.
I used to say, I dream, I plan, I can.
And  that's what I've been doing all my life.
And everything I do, this is me from nineteen ninety-three.
That's-  That's my old school jacket I had since nineteen ninety-three.
That one right there.
Uh.
I design.
I'm a visual designer.
A visual everything.
I have I come up with everything and I bring I my own team to bring it to life.
And That's the heart  of the Lower East Side.
Third Street and Avenue D is the heart  that's where.
That corner right there was the corner that oh my God.
It's just crazy.
Um.
The biggest drug dealers, the biggest gun fights, um.
D stand for dead.
And i- it was just like the heart of the whole Lower East Side from Brooklyn Bridge to Third Avenue, or Fourteenth Street, from East to s-  from south to um, e- um, north.
Third Street is the heart.
That's where um.
That's where, um, everybody that's where everybody  who was doing  the drugs in the  early seventies, late seventies, eighties, and all that they had to come from.
Where ever they was coming from,  they had to make it from B  A, B, C to get to D.
Now, once you get to D to make it back out, it was serious in the eighties and all that, like wow.
You gotta go back through like f- three more a- a- a- avenues to get out of it.
And you just made it.
Like wow, we- we on Avenue D, it was something to talk about.
Smashing Pumpkins,  he made it to Avenue D,  and got murdered by um, a overdose.
One of the guys from Smashing Pumpkins.
Yeah, it's in my book.
Yeah.
Um.
Of course it was gangs all- all my life.
It was, um.
A bunch of gangs.
Um.
DDT.
Um.
Doing Damage Together.
Um.
Um.
HP.
What it for?
Um.
Putting out heads.
Um.
Third Street Boys.
Killer Hill.
That's up by the Brooklyn Bridge, Killer Hill, and Um.
Again, um, I di- I didn't have to join a gang, cause one,  when you popular,  and you know half the world,  you don't need to join a gang.
And,  that's what made me.
That's what separated me from  RD-NAME-2,  and got the industry name  Big Shot.
Cause all my life, I had the- I had the revenue.
And all my life, I was giving back-  giving back.
And to investing and to  tryna put my own record out,  to coming out with my own clothes,  and just giving back to the community  all my life, and eventually, something's gonna come out of it.
It definitely is.
Third Street.
That's- you see it right there.
That's where when I wanna go get a piece of mind and  just to reminisce, you can find me on Third Street and Avenue D, sitting down.
Every- any day.
Any day of the week.
I don't care how many kids there now.
Like, it's a new generation coming up, call theyself Money Boys.
And.
Money Boys is  these kids  mine- my- my godson,  this kid right here in this picture.
His father  got murdered in nineteen ninety-three.
Named RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 is in that picture with me up there.
That's the father.
That's my godson.
That's his son.
Now,  his son is coming up,  at sixteen years old, a- and it's called Money Boys and they be out there now.
Money Boys  they wearing  them kids wearing three hundred dollar jeans, two hundred, three hundred sh- um, sneakers.
They got the Ed Hardy and ef-  That name brand probably is too less for them, but they got all kind of.
And they call theyself Money Boys cause They- they out there doing what they gotta do.
Like.
Sleeping in the rat hole, again.
You- e- this is my rat hole when you  when somebody in the next room making whoopy, or making love and you take the glass and put it in the wall, or when somebody outside that window hustling and you acting naive.
That's sleeping in the rathole.
Like.
However they getting it, they getting it.
I don't know.
I don't be out there with them, and the only thing I give to them is my advice.
All the time.
Like all the time.
The best I can give you is my advice, my advice, my advice, I can't do nothing else for you but.
Sixteen years old.
The advice I give to my sixteen year old godson, RD-NAME-4 RD-NAME-2, you skreet smart,  and you're school smart.
You sixteen.
You got three more years, to either make it past your father's due date of death,  or you ain't gonna make it.
The only thing I can give you now, is my love.
And,  any time you wanna come uptown and talk to me and stay over,  the door's always open for you.
Now  the financial part, like I used to give you money to all the kids and all that,  I don't- ain't out there going backwards in life no more and everything else, like I'm struggling myself to maintain.
So, it's like the most I can give you is this, from somebody who-  who been through it all,  and this and that,  and never got more than three days in prison,  f- no jail record at thirty-eight.
A- a- n- and that's kind of awkward for a Black man who was raised in Manhattan, in Lower East Side, Brooklyn, whatever.
To be thirty-eight,  and the cops still tryna put him in, for no reason.
Like, come on.
I told them today,  all you're doing is practicing.
I'm thirty-eight and a half with no jail record,  you can put my ID through the system all you want,  and it's gonna come back up negative.
I don't have no record at all.
I can go to sleep, and wake up in the morning and still be at peace.
Now,  again, if they woulda pat me down, or- and went through my pockets, they would have definitely found like forty dollars and some good ass weed.
But, everybody know, since I was thirteen, that's my MO.
And it's not a downfall.
It mo- i- it make me motivate.
I use it to my advantage.
That's my.
Yeah, that's my kitten.
It's called Midnight.
Yeah.
Midnight.
Kay.
Again,  if you can afford it,  I'm not mad at you.
Know what I'm saying, but just don't come down here  and look at the-  the projects and the mixed community  like we shit.
Know what I'm saying, cause everything is time for change.
And  Like, Now, big buildings is going up all over the world.
It's just not just down here.
Now, if you can afford it,  you gotta get in where you fit in.
Yes.
The- the blue one?
Uh-huh.
Yes.
Yes.
Across the street from- on.
That'd be nice.
Exactly.
Definitely.
The- it is.
I- I think I- I'd build a big r- a recreation  community center  for the youth.
Like, I think that's what they need to invest they money in.
Something to keep the kids off the streets.
And that space it so s- it's spacious.
I mean, and.
And put computers in there.
Put something  you gotta have- you gotta trick the kids these days.
You gotta.
Like, y- y- you.
Yeah.
You gotta get 'em in there.
By all means necessary, you just can't build a building, and be like okay, this is for the youth.
You gotta target them.
Know what I'm saying, you gotta  it's-  it gotta be open at a certain time.
If not, they gonna be back on the corners.
You gotta have computers in there I think they should have a  a video room in there.
I think they should have something would hold, at least  twenty to thirty kids.
Another, uh, another big space in there,  with a- with a, uh, a big movie theater.
Not a- not even a movie theater.
Just a projector, we got a wall, and we could show uh- a- all movies.
Or rent movies, and show movies.
Somewhere they can be there from-  from six to eight.
Know what I'm saying, and  I think j- that's one good way to give back to the community because No lie,  we got a lot of, lot of people  down here  who's struggling, trying to make ends meet, by going to work  and everything else, but  by the time, the end of the forty hours,  you don't got nothing.
Cause the I think it should be a free place.
Government ran.
But have enough people, uh, staff in there  to take on the babysitting jobs and all that, cause that's-  that's- that's crucial right now.
That's a lot of money coming out from one check  the rent, the food.
And then you gotta work again next week, like, I'm really, really broke.
So, I think they should staff it and have it free  for nine to five people.
Nine to six.
Yeah.
I- it's- it's a good deed.
I don't know how it's gonna lose, they gonna lose out, they gonna say they losing out cause they ain't making no income, they gotta pay these people.
But, it's some way.
Like, even if we gotta pay ten dollars a child, or  something.
It don't have to be free.
Everything don't have to be free.
But, long as we pay like a l-  twenty dollars a child, and  and if it's big enough, twenty dollars time whatever, whatever,  should add up to something to pay  somebody.
Meaning, you might get and it's a lot of people out there, believe me, who work  who wanna do those things like that free.
Who would help out, oh don't worry, and it's called giving back.
And that's- that's why I look at that.
So, the only thing that comes off the head is uh, a big  big recreation center like for- for- for all people.
Not just  the people living in projects.
For whoever got- whoever gotta go to work,  and don't- can't afford a a- you gotta fill out the form and all that, but whoever can't afford two hundred dollars a week a hundred and fifty dollars a week, if you paying one fifty a week, okay.
Give me seventy-five dollars.
Kay, okay, that's the best I can do for this family.
We go through your paperwork.
Everything going through the paperwork, and you paying two twenty-five,  give me one.
One fifteen.
Um.
It's always need for housing.
Cause they came up with the Zillow  Zero  Tolerance  like,  you can get kicked out of housing for anything.
For anything.
Right now, if I woulda got stopped,  for a back of trees or anything, they woulda made that into oh, he killed five people,  and this, and this and that, he must go.
That's cause this is prime ti- this is prime real estate right here.
This property down on the Lower East Side,  it's ridiculous.
That's why, and they-  they been knew.
And that's what it is right now.
They know how- they know what this is worth.
They- they already changing a East River up to Battery Park City.
They tryna make it look like Battery- give us sand.
Now we getting sand across the street from the projects now.
And.
Meanwhile that was down at Battery Park City, re since I was born.
Now they tryna expand it  more this way cause they know already.
They know.
Like damn, if we get rid of this RD-NAME-1 family  and get another  a working family in there,  and they probably started paying whatever they paying now.
They probably pay fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, two thousand dollars a month.
Easy.
Now if it's two bedrooms, a bathroom, and a kitchen, and a li- No, if you f- forget about it.
Thirty eight hundred, easy.
So that's what it is, and they know already, so they tryna get  everybody out.
And  they tryna buy these, hut, they's trying to buy these something called hut,  tryna buy these projects, I heard um, also I heard, um, what's his name?
Mr.
New York,  um.
Donald Trump.
He own-  that's why I call him Mr.
New York, he own everything.
He got a- he tryna put a finger in these projects and things like that cause this is prime sapce.
So when you get a Donald Trump looking at a Lillian Wald Projects  what's the outcome?
Money.
Money.
Or you can stay there if you can afford it.
If not, we gonna give you twenty thousand dollars and  lot- honestly speaking  you got people like sis- sister RD-NAME-1 and other- all the  elderly ladies was looking at  twenty thousand like it's a- it's a- it's a- it's w- it's money.
Sorry.
But it's really not.
How far twenty thousand  gonna take you?
So it's like, they tricking- they tricking the elderly people, all that, by coming through with a  I'm gonna give you all this money.
This is twenty three thousand dollars.
And we gonna help you find a place.
Meanwhile the place they finding you is they uncles.
And by the time they get they money over there, the rent and all that.
It's a changed game.
It's all about who you know.