Okay,  I was  born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
And on  um  At RD-ADDRESS-6 right there on Fourteenth Street.
And um.
When.
Oh, when.
I was- eh- February twenty-seventh.
Nineteen Seventy-nine.
That makes me twenty-nine years old.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um.
It's funny, both of my parents, um, not migrated, but yeah, kind of, from Harlem.
They came from.
They came from Harlem.
They were uh, one of those uh  a lot of the families that were  um  looking to.
Well- I what I understood it was that both my grandmothers were single mothers and they trying to  find more opportunities  and uh,  there was housing opportunities over here.
And so a lot of people.
That's- I think- I can see like the history of it was like  the more Jewish, the Jewish  population was actually flocking to Queens and to the suburbs.
And then  the Hispanic and la- and  and Black  um  population started moving  ma- like further down and spreading out more.
Because there was a- for housing opportunities and.
So I- both of my grandmothers  simultaneously came  to n- the Lower East Side.
Uh.
And  came  to Loui-  to Lower East Side from  from the same neighborhoods in Harlem.
And so.
No.
And then it was funny because- or they knew of each other.
And it's funny, then their children later on  get together and have me.
Right.
But they, um, So they knew each other for years, and them my mother and my father met  just  happenstance like lately  you know, years later on.
Um.
Yeah.
They met on the Lower East Side.
And actually, you can  uh,  on J- in Jackson Park, there's a tree  with their- their initials in it  from when they were little kids.
Yeah, they were high school sweethearts.
They were high school sweet hearts.
And they not together now.
But the tree, And the- the initials are still in there.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
You can still go back there and look at that.
The tree.
Just, I Af- I- I hate to s- use those boxes and squares.
If we have to.
Um.
Yeah.
Oh.
Nope.
Um.
Both of my parents, both of my parents were  they're just  we are- I hate to say that we're African American.
It's so s- I mean, you think about it.
It's like um,  It's  a- fundamentally st-  um, stupid and  It's hi- it's covering a truth.
A- a history.
It's not acknowledging it at all.
It's just perpetuating a social s- uh-  social construct.
It's  like, African American, so Africa,  Africa's a whole continent.
Plethora of  you know, beliefs and cultures and dialects.
And to-  to-  to just give it back to me in my- some measly name, like oh, well you know what?
Up in the past, you know, we've- your predecessors were pulled from your country, and brought here and enslaved,  and you know, we'll give you back Africa in their name.
You know, like  not- not specific, like e- I don't have any regions that I'm, you know, just Africa.
Just African.
So.
Mm.
I'd rather, I'd like to call everybody brown.
Or different shades of brown.
I think that we would get to a better direction that way.
Hey man, everybody's brown.
Everybody's got some different color but it's brown.
It's some brown and, some white.
It's tinted.
You know.
I'd like that way better.
Because just-  just  breries too much.
So, I'm just saying just for like for the purpose of the interview, but  man,  I- I us- I usually say I'm brown.
I'm a brown person, but I did- I don't  like, I don't- most of my family's from the South.
Yeah.
And  then uh.
Yeah.
Have family down there in the South.
Yeah, we have family reunions.
Mm-hm.
I just didn't make the last one that we had.
But, we have family reunions and  every year, we go different  places, but a lot of the family's from the South.
And uh.
Uh.
My f-  my father  my  my last name, a lot of people have my last name in Panama.
Yeah.
Yeah, I went there, and a phonebook had my last name when I- I- I wanted to.
But, it was so weird because, um, u- I- f- In America, I've never- I've never hea- rarely hear people with my last name, RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2.
And my father  put  two S's at the end.
He put  the other S at the end.
It's like RD-NAME-9.
Double, double.
And, um.
Then.
Even if you try to Google my name,  a lot of people who do have RD-NAME-2, they have one S.
And then, When I go to Panama, There's, uh, some that had two S's, it was weird.
It was very crazy, but,  it was cool.
And the- it was cool to see that, and then  just being there, I looked like the-  like the people there, uh, nobody knew,  people was asking me what island I was- I was from.
And I'm like a really crazy small island far  far away.
It's an island.
It's far, and it's crazy.
It's crazy.
But, they look like me.
So, I lo- I feel like  my father could be from Panama.
I did ask him and he doesn't know much about his father, and I don't know much about him.
So.
I grew with my mom.
I grew up with her  and  she raised uh four of us.
I have siblings.
I have two older brothers and a younger sister, she's twenty-eight.
And we w- and my older brothers are thirty-two  thirty-si-  thirty-f- s- five and thirty six.
Yeah.
They're old, I tease them.
But um.
It was four of us, and my father kind of left when I was three.
And he go ji- addicted to drugs.
Yeah.
To uh,  uh, tar heroin, and crack.
But.
He's around the right time.
Right.
But, he uh.
Me and him, I haven't talked to him, it's funny cause I haven't talked to him for six years.
And I just started talking to him.
Um.
Yeah, about like four-  four months ago.
It's funny, RD-NAME-3  we- we'r- we're doing, um.
We're taking classes, uh,  where we're tryna  uh,  combine martia- like  um.
The martial arts trainings with um, community organizing.
The aspects of it.
And One of the things that we're doing is um.
Yeah, RD-NAME-3 has us in this.
And uh.
Uh.
Wha- you- Yeah.
We're learning how to use that though to center ourselves in our work.
And whatever we're learning it's actually spilling into our personal lives.
And that's- that's one of the corollaries of it.
I am   I am  talking to my father now, because  I'm thinking more about my energy  and how it's used.
And there was way more negative energy used to-  to- to hate him than it was to love him.
So.
It's like a less  I even feel like less energy being  used with um  less hate Letting it go.
And I mean, I've w- I have this understanding with everybody else.
I'm so aware of all of these socioeconomic conditions  but when it's right in front,  you know, of me and it's- it's directly affecting me, I've   I was like not consistent with that.
Like, I was not consistent with that in my life, so.
That's when I start talking with him again.
And.
He's still in the neighborhood.
He's still in the neighborhood to his will.
And uh, it's funny because the way we found him.
I found him in nineteen ninety  like, we got s- we started talking back in nineteen ninety-seven.
Right before I went to college.
And he um.
We found him because we lost my cat.
And it was my senior year of high school.
Yep.
Boy George.
We lost Boy George.
My senior year in high school,  and I'm worried about my cat.
I got midterms and everything, and my cat is missing, and I'm going crazy.
And he- he was one of those cats, this is a city, he would go out.
He would um.
Yeah, he would go out to the windows and  He would do some crazy stuff, and sometimes go all throughout the building, but he would come back.
And he would start crying and back at the door, like he always came back.
But somebody, uh, one of the dagone maintenance men took him.
But we found-  Yeah.
He took him.
Maintenance man took him and put him in the basement.
Good for rats.
They took my cat, and put him down there for rats.
My cat.
But, um.
When we were in the court, when I was- my sister and I were door knocking.
looking for my cat.
And that's how I found my father.
Like acro- He lives right across the street from me.
I'm like No, actually, when.
It was like- It's like a  it's like one of them houses where all the people  do their drugs at and everything.
Like a little crack spot.
And- but we didn't know that.
Anyway, we was knocking on the door.
And somebody said  RD-NAME-1.
I think those are your kids outside.
And my sister and I looked at each other we was like  daddy   daddy?
And we found- Holy shit.
Like, wow.
This is dad's house?
And we just stood there still.
And then it was- was sure enough, it was him.
So, we found him again.
And it was like, oh, you live right across the street?
What?
That's how we started.
So he still lives in the neighborhood.
And um.
But- and lives right across the street from my mom.
Like literally.
Th- well, now she moved further  she moved to another smaller apartment  So they live in the same development.
They live literally in the same  development.
No, I live in RD-ADDRESS-2  I'm from RD-ADDRESS-2 It was from RD-ADDRESS-2.
Yeah.
He's from RD-ADDRESS-2 Yeah.
He still lives there.
And, uh, yeah.
My mother still lives there.
My mother is  He- my father's not doing anything with himself right now.
He actually volunteered yesterday for the elections.
Yup, you know, I got him to help them.
Well, he could not volunteer.
He got money.
He got money to do it.
But.
You know.
I got him involved, he got to see a little of what I do.
And uh.
My mother, she's  she's uh, a social worker.
In d- in um, the Lower East Side.
She's been a social worker for o- she could t- she's I don't know.
She's close to retiring.
She's her- close to hitting that thirty year mark point.
So, she's um.
She's been helping with parents at a head start program.
On the Lower East Side.
So, she's still here and she works in the neighborhood.
And I'm here, and I work in the neighborhood.
I live on my own.
I'm living with- I live, um.
On RD-ADDRESS-4.
Now.
And I used to live with my sister, but she just moved out.
And uh.
Yeah.
Uh, it's good.
I mean.
Yeah.
It's cool.
Cause, you know.
Back where you left it.
But that's- that's what's making me- it's making you more account- like I'll now I can't blame things on my sister, like oh.
She didn't throw out the garbage?
It's all me.
It's all me.
I can't even like, yeah.
So.
It's putting me- It's putting things into perspective.
Like ah shit man.
I gotta- when people come over, I gotta make sure my   My stuff is on point.
But.
Yeah, that's about it actually.
It's cool living without.
I've g- I- You know, it's so funny.
It's- this is a memory that's good.
It's so funny that you just said this.
This is a memory  that's good and bad in itself.
When we were little, we played this game called colors.
Kay.
Before you left a- if we was living toge- if we was friends and we was growing up together, Before we left this house, we had to pick a color.
What's your color?
Purple?
Alright.
I'm red.
We'd walk out,  and we'd count  how many crack vials we see with that color top.
Okay.
So, if you had so, we would get ready to go to this post office By the time we got to the post office and back,  you was letting me know every time you saw  a purple one.
And I was letting you know every time I saw a red one.
And we got points.
And upon the end of the day,  we always would forget sometimes or whatever.
But,  either way,  that's how much drugs was in this neighborhood.
Where there were crack vials  everywhere.
Drug needles.
That was- that was a common thing in grass, so you didn't play in grass.
You kept off grass cause it's a place where dogs  t- crapped at you had drug needles in it, and- and crack vials.
They looked like little perfume-  it looks like little perfume crack vials.
All in different colors.
So, every w- depending what color you pick, I w- my color was always purple.
I gave you purple today.
But purple, I'd be like purple.
And I'd be like, there go purp- there goes five purple!
I used to f- I'd have like, I had like this uh  this- this science to it like nah man.
Purple is the color.
Everybody gets the purp- I really did.
But.
So.
Yeah.
It was purple.
And i- this was in school yards and  and churches.
And any type of grass over here, there was drug needles and crack vials and all of that in there.
Um.
But.
That's the funny  so, we played in parks still.
We still played in these parks.
We still played in these parks.
So, yeah, we still- that's what I'm saying, like it was- this is a negative part of it, but  I r- I remember that  That was fun for me as a little kid.
That was a fun game.
You know.
Not knowing the real implications of it.
Even, um,  where we played uh,  I remember one time this boy chased us with a freaking drug needle.
He picked it up and we- that was when AIDS was around.
We was like, you didn't know about AIDS much, but it was like you knew that you associated it with drugs too and drug needles, and we was like  he's gonna give us AIDS!
And we used to tell everybody he's had AIDS cause he picked up the drug needle!
But there was drug needles.
When I got, um  When I got older, I played basketball.
And, uh.
The way we played, uh, we has to- we used to steal  brooms from the maintenance men and clean our parks  before we played on them.
We had to clean the gra- we had to clean the glass off of them.
And, uh.
We would beg the junkies  like, we would make like, agreements with them.
Like, man  please don't pee in this corner man.
Cause it's gonna get on the court.
It's gonna get on the court man.
Please.
pee in the other corner.
And we used to beg them.
Yeah.
Just pee over  there.
And these were all men that  were attached to families.
But, they were like these serious public drug users.
And they- some of them were- had alcohol problems, some of them were  addicted to other types of drugs,  but, it was still a community.
Which is oddly enough.
They still like  I still could walk- if we walked by this basketball court right now, And these- those guys are still there.
They're still there, sitting there.
Everything's changing around them but they're still there.
And they call me Sheryl Swoops.
They joke around.
So, they be like they're all drunk, and they're like Aye, Sheryl Swoops.
But.
That- they would look at y- they were looking at me and watching me grow up and.
They still even and make dumb conversation, ask me if I'm- what happened to basketball?
But.
These are the people that- this was my neighborhood.
This is where we played at Those are the things that I remember.
You knew what to do.
When my mother- when I walked in the building as a little girl, we had to ring the bell before we walked in the building  so my mother knew that we was in the building.
Um.
When we was leaving the building, we had to ring the bell when we left the building, so my mother knew that we made it out of the building.
The building wasn't safe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is what she nee- you know.
W- we had tight codes when  when we- you w- we were at home, we answered the door for no one, not even family members.
Not even- I got in huge trouble when I let my cousin in one day.
And I was like, but he's my family.
My mother told me, you do not  open the door  for anyone.
Anybody.
Nobody.
Nobody.
So, I got in trouble for that once.
Um.
Always travel in pairs.
Like when my sister and I, we used to always  t- um walk with each other.
Um.
When we had Walkmans, right, you couldn't- You couldn't- um  hold it out like now, and you had to not have it loud  because somebody might come up and run up on you.
When you, um,  you kept a quarter.
My mother made sure we kept quarters tight on our little bras.
So we could call at a pay phone in case of emergency.
And  uh.
You know.
Put the f- I don't know.
We- I just never-  I never felt  uns- I felt like they- I would have those fears, but I knew that like  there was these things that I had t- to do.
To keep.
Rules.
Yeah.
When you got down the block, you- you didn't go down the whole block without looking down at least once.
Never did that.
It didn't make sense to me.
You know, you was taught that.
You walk down the block, You look, you check yourself.
Check your surroundings every once in a while.
These the things that w-  we were just raised up with.
I remember throwing out the garbage.
There was this  um, junkie guy,  um, he was running away form people shooting at him.
And we had just finished thro- we had just been- we had literally just throw- we would throw out the garbage  while he had just ran away from somebody shooting at him.
And I remember like,  him breathing so hard  and  and- and um  sweating and he was- it was  we heard the gunshots, and then I figured we- we- we they was probably, like that was the guy that was  but I remember us throwing out the garbage  and I remember being like this little girl.
When my- cause my sister and I threw out the garbage together, like come on.
What kind-  kind of- neighborhood you have to throw out the garbage together.
It's just- but.
Um.
We- I remember us like, just knowing what to do.
I remember just knowing like  Don't pay him no mind.
Act calm.
Act like he's not even here.
And throw out the garbage.
And I was fucking terrified.
But I remember like, just being like no.
We gonna throw out- and her and I literally talked like he wasn't s-   like breathing all hard, out of breath.
We were talking, like, yeah the food was good.
And we both knew.
We didn't even-  We never looked at each other once  to know like, man, we just keep it moving.
Don't act like we don't see him, throw the garbage out, act like we don't even know he's there.
They-  We knew exactly wha- they were drug dealers, they- they sold drugs in the buildings.
Um.
All the time.
They was drugs- dru- drug dealer- I'm talking about huge operations.
On every floor.
You-  we used to hang Yeah.
RD-ADDRESS-2 too.
We used to be in the um, hallway.
We used to play a lot in the hallway too.
That was another safe place.
Play out in the hallway and when  we would go by the- some people were coming by to get the drugs, you would see like  tons of money on the  table and  it was just c- we couldn't even think about it.
I saw it.
No I saw it but I never touched it.
Even when I was older, my mother was like  nine o'clock.
You gotta be home.
I don't care what none of your friends are doing.
Nine-o'clock.
You gotta.
no- not- no- no- not nine-o-  one.
Nine o'clock.
And if I came in at nine-o-one,  one day without the phone.
Nine fifteen fifteen days without the phone.
Nine thirty, thirty days without the phone.
And, if you wanna knock out some days, you have to clean out the cabinets,  and rearrange the linen closet  to knock off some days, but.
But, that's what.
Yeah, she was tough.
But, so, other than that, we really, I mean, I have to if- I have to really think about  well, my brother was attacked a lot.
My brother's also homosexual.
And um.
That made- that was like, that just made it- That just added- that just added fuel to it.
And um.
I watched my mother struggle with that, you know, struggle with tryna um,  worry about her son who wasn't accepted in the community and um, it wasn't safe for him.
So, like, he came home, he came home a couple of times beat up.
Um.
Jumped.
And then at one point, his husband, who he's still with today, they still together, it was they're- they're going on like sixteen- seventeen years.
I don't know.
Eighteen years.
I'm doing a discredit.
They've been together for a long time.
And at the time, he was actually staying with us too.
And I remember them coming home one day  and he's a- he was a foster kid and  displaced out of his community, and my mother- My mother used to also take everybody in too.
I hated that.
I hated that.
I- I learned, like I have to share spaces with people  I would be on my- I would come in the morning and all these different people woul- are on the floor, living in my house.
My cousins.
Next door neighbors.
You know.
So, that's how it touched me too.
So, like, my brother, he came home beat up a couple of times.
Uh,  my cousins  got into some stuff.
My father,  he's addicted to drugs.
So, what does that mean?
Like um, the people that are, um,  that were around me sometimes weren't-  could do some foul behavior, you know, like, nasty people, like My mother, one day,  I remember, this junkie lady kissed me,  and my mother makes a big deal out of it.
She's like, oh your daughters are so cute.
Come here!
And my mother used to tell me, never let anybody kiss us, like she was strict with everything.
And this lady was like and she kissed me, and my mother, she literally went crazy.
Oh my gosh!
You never kiss my daughter!
We don't know where her lips were, my mother washed my face, she would check me- took me to the doctor to get my skin checked, it was a big thing.
But, it was like, no.
No.
Don't touch my children.
I don't want none of the- these things touching them.
My brother got beat up.
My other brother-   I- I once had a gun pulled out on me.
But, it was like  if I think about it, it was this guy, his name is RD-NAME-1.
And I was ta- he was tryna talk to one of my little friends.
And he's my brother's age.
He's tryna talk to my little friend.
And I was like, I'm- was almost a little- like really like outspoken.
I still am, but you know.
I know, right.
I was more like, what?
And I said to him, but t- should've minded my business, I said  That's a little girl you're messing with.
You don't got enough girls your age?
What you doing with that little girl?
That's nasty.
And  we were still young.
He was probably was sixteen, or  fifteen at the time.
He was still a young kid, we were all still little kids, but he had a gun.
He had a gun.
And he came up to me, He pulled it out on me.
He was like you need to open u- you need to shut your mouth up or I'll take care of you-  I'll take care of you and your- and go- and he said, I'll take care of you, he says, and get your brother.
And that's when I realize, like  that's just like  that's a condition in my community and my brother I realize I need to never do that again.
Never open my mouth and put my family at risk, cause here it is, my brother He wasn't a drug dealer.
My brother was a basketball player.
And that's what made him cool.
He could dunk, he was fast, and that's why everybody respected him.
That's where he got his respect.
Not from selling drugs or anything like that, and that's what his- that's what his thing was, like Man and I'll shoot your punk ass brother too.
And what And it made me realize, man the community I was in, there's fifteen year-olds with guns.
And you know, my brother could-  could a- could potentially be  you know, could have gotten killed because of that.
You know, so.
And then that's  I mean, not even counting all the little hood fights that happened but nothing crazy.
Nothing like really crazy actually  directly affected me until later on, when I came back to the neighborhood from college.
Yeah, I went away.
Man.
Everything.
Everything.
And I- it was more like, you know how you know, if you look at this painting, right.
This painting that's sitting there and you're staring really close to it, you could admire all the detail of everything, and all the colors.
And it just took a while for me to really step back and see what was happening in my neighborhood.
You know, and then see the whole full picture.
So, it looked very beautiful at-  at the time.
And when you say revitalize, like these- I ca- I put them in like- I've been doing these- when I do workshops, I'm like, let's put down some new  bad curse words, like revitalize.
Like  deconcentrate like, these are these new bad words.
Tha- we didn't ne- we never knew what-  would hurt us.
Revitalize our community?
That sounds great.
Sounds pretty good.
But, no.
It's not gonna always be you know, a- positive things that are coming out of that.
And when- when I first- when I've when I w-  I remember like  programs were thriving  and I remember  uh.
Kids were very involved and- and- and-  and I noticed too, like this is um,  simultaneously, funding stopped-  started getting cut from um, programs  locally.
This is like maybe like.
Yeah, like  almost like twenty years ago.
When Giuliani and  and Pataki They started cutting programs.
Tremendously.
In the neighborhoods.
And  that affected  a lot.
I used to coach basketball.
I was one of those l- that's another thing that's a memory  when I was a little girl, I was this tomboy  and  they was like- I used to always come, and they was like, you know what,  if you want little girls- Cause I kept on saying, I want little girls, they say, you know what?
You want little girls,  go get 'em.
And I said  oh.
And then if I get little girls, we could have a team?
He said, yeah.
So, I'm like, no problem.
Me and I could tell you right, my homegirl, RD-NAME-2, we still talk to this day, we still work together  actually.
Like, she works  with youths, and I work here, but we actually bridged those gaps.
She has her youth come and organize with us and do organize with public housing, but both of us went and we  did recruiting  for- for youth.
For girls, and we came up with all of these little girls they were none of our- none of the- our age.
So, we wind up becoming junior coaches, and we started our own little program.
This was- just is- very true.
Literally, I was like probably like fourteen, fifteen.
Fourteen, fifteen.
And we had a team.
And we had practices.
And we had the gym on certain hours, for certain hours for certain days.
We did it.
We did it.
But, I used- so I used to coach basketball.
And one of the- a lot of little girls that we coached  they pregnant now.
They have babies and  And- and I- I mean, I'm not trying to say that that was the end all be all of the programs, but they didn't have no- anywhere to go.
When we cut that program there was really nothing for those kids to do.
And uh- so I came back and now a lot of them are pregnant and  addicted to drugs and.
Oh sorry.
Let me  turn this off.