Okay.
Um, I was born November  twenty-fourth, nineteen fifty-seven.
So I'm fifty-one years old.
And- thank you, I wanted that to go on the tape.
Thank you.
Um, I was born in Brooklyn.
So I tell people that I'm a native Manhattanite.
Um, but I ws born in Brooklyn.
I have to confess- the first secret coming out.
So there are few people who know that.
But, um, my family never lived-  well, I never lived in Brooklyn other that the time I spent at the hospital, so at- whatever time that, you know, however they kept you- long they kept you at that-  at that time, um,  in the hospital, that was my length of my residency in Brooklyn.
Yes, in Brooklyn.
Well what happened was my parents lived in Brooklyn.
They lived in downtown Brooklyn, I don't remember the street,  um,  but they-  I already had a sister, um, RD-NAME-5.
RD-NAME-5.
And we all called her RD-NAME-2.
Um, who was two years old and they needed a, I guess, a bigger place.
They never told me why they moved, but they needed a bigger place.
So they moved to the projects.
Um,  a- Jacob Riis Projects, and- and while my mother was in the hospital, my father moved.
Now, one of the questions I now have is where was my sister in all of this?
So I- I guess staying with some random aunt or, you know, under- uncle, or d- family member.
Um, just by way of background, my parents Um,   my father is from Georgia, from Vidalia, where the onions come from.
And my mother is from,  um, the northern part of Florida, from Monticello.
Both very small towns.
And they moved  north, I guess in the thirties,  um, and the forties- thirties or the forties, I'm not sure when.
Um, as part of the migration of blacks to the north looking for better opportunities.
Um, so- and they met here.
They met in New York and, um, I think in church.
And, uh, not I think, I know in church.
And  got married and had a son,  who died, um, right after birth.
And then my sister was born and then I came along, like two and a half years later, and they wanted to move,  um, I guess to a larger space.
Now, at that time when I was growing up the projects I guess were fairly new.
I don't remember the entire history I think they were built in the forties.
Um,  and  they were considered when they, I think just based on they history  they were not considered to be t- a- permanent housing.
They were supposed to be temporary housing.
You know, you stay- you- you moved into the projects to save enough money to get your Archie Bunker,  you know, house out in Queens.
So, when I- It was a stepping stone.
So when I moved- when we moved in,  um, everybody lived in the projects.
So  our neighbors, you know, b- I'd sometimes look at then and now.
Now, the projects have become   a place of despair,   and scary, and very violent.
Um,  ins- in- I think that  when I was there was kind of a transition period, because now it's become- uh- n- then  everybody lived there,  you know, there were Italians, there were Jews, there were Blacks, there were Whites, there were Hispanics it was-  oh my God.
It was everybody, you know so.
Growing up on the Lower East Side,  I grew up eating lox-  lox and bagels and, you know.
Going down to RD-NAME-4's house to celebrate Hanukkah.
Or going next door to bake  those little Italian cookies with the sprinkles on them, with Mrs.RD-NAME-3 I mean, everybody lived there, so it was a very- yeah.
We had- everybody knew- we all had our suspicions and,  you know, but slowly what would happen was as people moved out- the people you could, did transition out.
And then there was a group of people who stayed.
We were part of the group that stayed.
Which, at some point, I'll tell you how I got my phone number.
Right?
My cell phone number.
Um, my cell phone number is the f- number that my parents got when they move into that-  to that apartment.
So it's the same phone number.
So I grew up on the Lower East Side, I grew up with all these experience and- and it was very diverse.
This was the sixties, yes.
Um, yeah.
I mean, it's still there.
My s- up until three years ago my sis- my father moved out, he moved  back to Georgia.
And up until  three years ago, my sister took over the apartment, and she was there.
We couldn't get her out of there, you know, it's like, move already.
My father had to leave before she would get out.
Um,  but there were, um,   there were playgrounds there.
We lived-  e- the projects is right across the street from a park.
So, um, across the street from the-  the projects, there's this park.
And in that park there was a nursery, so I went to nursery school there.
There was a pre-K there.
I remember, um, having a graduation from nursery school with the little cap and gown.
You know, my mother curling my hair into these, um, Shirley Temple curls, then having bright, shiny shoes.
Um, we used to bicycle from  Twelfth  Street, which is, you know, the beginning of the park.
All the way down to the end of it.
Down to where South Street Seaport is, almost there.
East River Park.
Yes.
You can bicycle all the way down past, you know, Grand Street, all of that,  and then turn around and come back.
And we would come over the bridge and we'd walk over-  walk over this bridge on Tenth Street and come back to our house.
I remember doing that, I remember playing  in our, um,    um,  in- in our- in the projects they had playgrounds, you know, and I remember this huge concrete airplane, that was right on,  um, Twelfth Street that I used to play in.
And I remember playing outside, um,  until I was frozen in the winter.
And at that time it seemed,  and maybe I'm wrong, but it seemed like we used to have these huge snowstorms.
And that snow, and I think it's global warning- warming,  um, we just don't get as much snow as we did.
Either that or I was just smaller then and it looked larger.
And so we played, um,  until we were frozen, and everybody,  you know, it was always hanging out the window and telling on you.
So there was nothing that you couldn't do-  that you could do, or- you couldn't do anything bad and get away with it, because everybody saw you and there was a- a sense  of community.
You know, I remember Miss RD-NAME-2 who lived on the second floor, and you had to walk past her window to get outside, so therefore my mother knew that I was fine going out.
And there was-   there was this, you know, this thing where you knew who the bad guys wa- were.
And that was RD-NAME2 who lived in the building behind us, and he was just like the- the community bully, so everybody stayed away from him.
And, you know, we would deal with the Brownie Scouts, um,  uh,  within the projects that we, you know, um,  I was part of the Brownie Scouts.
I remember going to RD-SCHOOL-5,  which is still there.
It's right across the street on RD-ADDRESS-7.
Um, but it was a new school at that time,  and I remember them dedicating the-  the garden and putting a tree, and there was a big thing about the sculpture that is in-  that's a part of that building.
There was something special about it.
If you look on the, I think-  t-  I think the building is between Twelfth and Eleventh Street, if you look on the Twelfth Street side there is a-  a sculpture there.
And there's something very important about that sculpture,  but I don't remember what.
But they made a big to do about it.
Um, and I remember that.
I remember taking yoga.
You know, in the sixties, because- as a kid, because at that time they had, um, they had, um,   it was the first time m-  that the public school system in New York had this idea of accelerated  programs.
You know, I'm sure they had other forms of it, but- no, the gifted and talented programs.
So, um, they called it uh, s- s- S-P was for junior high school, and then they called it I-G-C, Intellectually Gifted Children.
And they started it  when I was in third grade, so I was in that first group-  I think.
And I was in the third and fourth grade, they combined them.
And then I think fourth and fifth, and fifth and sixth- I don't remember how they did it, but I was part of that group.
So I got to participate in all these different programs.
The public school system actually did very well by me.
I mean, I have a de- I'm-  but, I mean, look at me.
I grew up in the projects.
I got a full scholarship to RD-SCHOOL-2  College.
You know, and they found me.
I had no idea they existed, but they found me based on my s- test scores.
Got a full scholarship, I ended up working for Citibank and then getting an MBA in finance from RD-SCHOOL-3.
And then, you know, here I am, the senior vice president and a director  at RD-WORK-5.
It's amazing.
You know, so- but that's- that's my whole story.
But I'm giving you like l- little details.
There used to be a chicken market  on-  where the pool is on Tenth Street and Avenue D.
Right?
That used to be a chicken market.
Like live chickens.
Like, you could- and I think for years after that, I could still smell the chickens.
You can ask anybody who's old enough, down there.
My mother- we used to go down there and get chickens, and I remember  all there were were chicken coops.
And we'd walk in, and there were these little chicken coops.
I remember that, and I remember they used to sell milk,  um, in the projects.
I'm looking out the window cause I wanted to look in that direction since it's right there.
Um, but they used to sell milk,  uh, in the projects.
And  there was, um,  just a little place.
And I don't know who sponsored it and why it was there  and why we didn't go to the store,  but  you- y-  you-  I was upset  because my sister was in  school and I couldn't go to school, so my mother said, you're in milk school.
So we used to go and get milk  And that was- I don't know what that was about, but it seemed to satisfy me, and I do remember that.
And I remember there was this guy, I wanna call him Frank,  but I don't know if that was his real name, who had a hot dog  stand.
You know, just one of those hot dor  vendors on Tenth Street and Avenue B, and he was there for years and we would stop there and get hot dogs.
My mother loved hot dogs with, um,  ketchup and onions.
And we would get hot dogs and- and go home, and  see, he seemed to have the best food.
And where that storage place is, there was a little bodega, which I think is still there on Avenue B between Ninth and Tenth Street.
And where housing wor- not on Avenue B, on Avenue D.
And h- where Housing Works is, that was all, like, tenements.
And then further down   um,  to me, in my t-  little mind, as you went further down,  um,  town  in the projects, it got scarier.
And I- I always thought of it as more violent.
I think it was just more unknown.
But I think it was more violent.
And then the other projects, Lillian Wald, were down there.
But Sixth Street, I remember  was an area where there were,  um, a lot of old,  um,   tenements.
And they filmed the Godfather there.
And I remember them filming that.
But that whole area was important for a number of reasons.
One, because it was intact.
And it was one of the few blocks that was intact, and that's where they filmed that- the Godfather.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Yes.
It is.
And it's- it's- it's that same- but it's that same street.
Yeah.
It was right around the corner, see is- n- that s- weird?
And to go back- and I think that s- block is still intact.
It's one of a few.
They also had, um,  push ka-  carts.
Did anybody tell you about the push carts?
No, they weren't that far down.
They were on, um,   no.
They were on, I think between B and C and like, Third Street?
That, from what I understand, there- you mean, e- Job- Odd Job?
Do you remember those?
And Odd Lot.
There used to be up until like, maybe five or six years ago, these stores called Odd Job Trading?
My understanding is that- or Odd Lot Trading, something like that, where you could go.
They're the Dollar Stores, but they were s- they were bigger than Dollar Stores.
They're like Ja- do you know Jacks?
They're like the- it was a Jacks, but it was called Odd Job.
It has since gone out of business, but until maybe five years ago, there was one right over here on Fourty-eighth Street.
Between Fifth and Sixth.
In any case, my understanding is the start to those stores were the push carts  on Third Street.
So the push carts sold pots and pans, my mother used to by, um, soil   um,  by the pot.
The- the literal flower pot full.
You know, for a nickel or whatever.
I also remember  the buses.
The- the lowest fair I think I remember-  I know fifteen cents for sure, but I wanna say ten cents.
You know, and it had- and it was the old,  old, old, old, buses.
Old buses where they had- and I remember the th- the  coined thing that they-  the money dropped into.
And the driver would give you change back for you dollar.
And, um We went to, um- all the time.
My mother would go on strike  on  weekends, so my father was responsible for myself and my sister.
My m-  she was home, and my father, um, was a clerk in a, uh, for a textile.
He always- he was always in the same industry, and he retired  from textiles, but he was a clerk.
He was like a shipping clerk.
He was the guy that mailed out your bolts of- of fabric.
And  he- my mother would go on strike and he would have to do our hair.
It was horrible.
Horrible.
And he would have to do our hair and, um,  he would take us places.
Um, he was very involved in the church.
My mother not so much as my father, she went because he went.
But he would take us places.
He would, um, y- we would say, daddy where are we going?
Oh I'm going to see a man about a dog.
Oh, really are we getting a dog?
And we would fall for this like, every week.
And he would take us places.
He would take us to museums or- he always take us to some place weird.
Like, I remember going all the way up to the northern most part-  point in Manhattan  to see an old Dutch house.
You know, and we would walk through there, or we would go to a museum, or we would go to the- one of the parks.
And.
Well, I think to the extent that, one, that we were- for African American families, I think that's true.
I think that there wer-  I'm trying to think because  at that time, remember, there were other different ethnic groups.
Those ethnic groups, those families, were intact.
The other African American families,  there weren't a lot of fathers around, that I remember.
Um, I remember all the mothers.
And I remember the fathers being there at some point, but not consistent.
So I think that for us, that was a rarity.
The other rare- but in terms of what those other families did, I'm not really sure.
You know, I know that- cause we did it  as a group.
You know, or d- usually my mother did not go, she stayed home, she relaxed, or whatever.
But we usually took  trips with my father,  and I think that was unusual too.
You know, as a group we went to church a- and we always went to Harlem.
So we went up to Harlem and we were going up there, my father finally bought a car,  um, during the riots,  in the sixties and seventies, so we s- saw h- Harlem burning and burnt.
Um,   so it was interesting.
And at that time,  you know, the focus for me was the school.
I remember going to the library.
The library on Tenth Street was our library.
The, um, dorms where- on Fourteenth Street, See, cause I'm on the northern part of the Lower East Side.
And I think that some people don't count where we were as the Lower East Side.
The Lower East Side I th- has become  more south of Houston Street.
Yeah, and they don't count north of Houston Street as being the- I don't know what it is.
I think they consider it to be the East Village.
I consider- I've always considered it to be the Lower East Side.
Right.
And I also think that-  yes.
I absolutely agree with you.
I'm- it's always been the Lower East Side.
Yes.
Alphabet City.
Yeah, become-  It was.
And  the other thing I was gonna say is Fourteenth Street on-  right on Irving Place where, um, PC Richards is and also where NYU dorms were.
There was the Palladium  that was a- a discotheque for a while, right.
And before that it was a movie theater.
It was my neighborhood movie theater.
And Fourteenth Street, between Second and Third Avenue, was all these, like, X-rated film  places.
Yes.
And- In the sixties.
I'm trying to remember,  um, sixties, seventies.
Sixties, seventies.
I remember the blackout.
The first blackout.
And having- and being at home and listening to the radio.
And- well, I just remember waiting for my father to come home,  you know.
And it didn't affect us very much.
There was no babies born after that or anything.
But, um, no.
No.
Very much so.
You know, I think that, um,  I think that  they were-  the- one of the trips that we took was to the library.
There was always this thing about-  there was school and learning was always like a focal center.
But it wasn't  n- beaten into us.
It was like,  you have to-  my sister and I,  luckily,  loved school.
We loved school, loved learning, loved education, loved reading.
We would go to the library and get books.
I r- two memories, vivid memories,  one was taking the shopping cart, for whatever reason, to the library  s- and I don't know why we had this shopping cart,  but  putting books in it.
Coming home,  putting book in the-  in the shopping cart and by the time we got home, there were no books because they had fallen out of the shopping cart.
And we had all these books, and I remember I had to pay for them.
And I was like, mortified.
It's like, why did you?
That's- that's one thing.
And then the other memory is the- probably the one beating,  um, spanking that my father every gave me, my mother used to spank me all the time, was, um,    was  catch- he came to my room and he was like,  go to bed.
And I was like,  reading, and I- and he came in like, two times.
The third time, I'm under the covers with a flashlight.
And he gave me a spanking for that.
Um, so e- this- there was this whole thing about school, so  if we said we had school work, we didn't have to do any other work.
We didn't have to do anything.
So  if we were- if we had homework, my parents were like, fine.
But there was never a pressure to succeed, there was never  pre- i- but it- the- I guess in- totally.
So, you know, we were always- we excelled in school.
We just always did well.
And so with that came the freedom to do other things.
And I think  by giving us- I spent a lot of time just wandering through the East Village, and a lot of time in the West Village.
Just wandering through.
And if you think about it, the West Village at that time  was very much like the East Village is, or was maybe ten years ago.
It was very seedy.
There was a women's prison there, I mean there was like, really kind of weird- there was a Nathan's right on Sixth Avenue, and it was all this kind of weird stuff going on.
Yes, very much so.
Very much so.
And Nathan's at that time, I brought it up not because it was a chain like a McDonald's chain like it is today, there were only like, three of them.
That one, the one on  Forty-Second Street, and the one on- in Coney Island.
That was it.
So it wasn't a- as if it was a chain, it was just a place.
Like a Horn and Hardarts, you know.
I remember those.
You know, my memory kind of-  is kind of a bridge between, you know, the fifties and what's going on now.
So I have very distant memories, like I remember segregation.
But I only remember the end of it.
I remember going every summer we went south  with my mother for like, six weeks.
My father stayed here and worked, and we went south.
And  it was a totally different world.
I remember going  with my aunt to,  um, when we were in Georgia we were- went-  and I think we were in a department store or something.
And my sister  went to  drink out of a water fountain, and my aunt grabbed her by the scruff of her neck and pulled her back.
And I'm like,  what's that about?
And it was because she was about to drink out of the whites-only water fountain.
Wild.
But the thing about it is, my son will have no memory of that.
And- and what's so c- cool, like I was reading this article today   about how Obama  won this election, what he was able to do in terms of working  through young people to convince older people  to vote for him.
But it was something that had to be done on both sides.
And I don't know if as a- a society we have an appreciation for the fact  that blacks had to be convinced too.
Because there are people who are like me and  who are older, who- who I'm- who live and grew up with boundaries.
Whereas my son, although the boundaries are there to the s- to some extent,  they're not there to the same extent.
And they're not as visible.
So he's going to grow up  saying, what do you mean black president?
When d-  I was born, you know, I voted for him, you know.
So those- Yeah, those things are more of a given, they're still challenges.
It is incredible.
And I was thinking today  how sad is it that,  you know, I can remember Martin Luther King and he could not see the fruits of his own labor being, you know, translated today.
And hopefully in some weird way he can.
Um, through the eyes of his children, but  getting back to the story.
I also remember, wanna go on record, there was an- a red bus  on Avenue B.
It was the Avenue B Bus.
At that time, the transit system- I don't know if they were still  independently owned, like people still owned- I think for the most part the system had been consolidated and was owned by the city.
There was one independent  bus that I knew of, I'm sure there were more.
But the Avenue B bus, the- uh- the number nine bus was an independent bus.
It was a red b- bus line, and it was private.
So that had, um,  I think it was privately owned.
It was red, all the other buses were green,  so.
And then the trains went by  the l- name of their lines, like the Independent, the I-R-T,  the Lexington Avenue Line.
So the I-R-T was the two or the three on Seventh Avenue.
The Independent was the the A, the E, the C.
And the Lexington Avenue Line was the Four, Five, or Six.
You know, now people are starting to call them by their n- their colors, which is really starting to annoy me.
You know, but change is change, so.
So, you know, even as I am remembering all this stuff, it was something else before.
You know, I knew it so I have to be okay with that too.
I'm trying to remember what else did this- the neighborhood look like.
Old Stuyvesant Town was all- always there.
I lived there, and then as I was growing up, I went to  RD-SCHOOL-5  and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-7,  which is right on RD-ADDRESS-4,   between RD-ADDRESS-4.
And we used to have to go through, um,    uh, Stuyvesant Town to get there and they hated us.
They didn't like us, they thought, oh-  that's my v-  view,  you know, my- my view, my memory.
So I don't know if that's true, but that is what I'm putting in their heads and their mouths.
Say- n- uh- not so much saying, i- it's looks.
You know, and we always thought of it as like, an exclusive neighborhood.
It's funny, cause I live there now, so I'm kind of like, okay.
That's where I live now.
So I'm like, okay.
But a- but, it-  I always felt that they looked down on the people who lived in the projects.
You know, and at that time- I think it's definitely true today.
I think that- but I think overall people have problems with, um,  with poorer neighborhoods.
And I think that at that time, the projects themselves were going through transition.
Heroin had hit.
Um, and I guess either it was- I don't know what changed but it became a bigger part- drugs became a bigger part of the community.
Um, so there were a lot of people roaming in- and our neighborhood became a haven for drugs.