Yeah.
And then.
Okay.
This is.
Alright.
I got friends from w- from college.
And they come down here and they're pissed off about what the change has been.
Because they w- g- they remember when this place when nobody really wanted to be here.
And, so when the first, when like- when the  bars started first, like tha- remember I told you that close  the up close?
Like the beautiful.
So, you see bars and  I'm twenty-one, and I'm like, yeah, I can drink and I'm identifying with my community in a different way.
I'm older.
I'm a-  coming home from college and  wow.
This is, you know.
This- I- cause I went away to school, but um.
It was very close.
So, I w- sometimes I came home on the weekends.
Um.
Especially when I stopped playing basketball and  I used to work here.
So I- since I- you know I said-  you know, st- Yeah.
Very yeah.
So I stayed conne- connected.
And um.
Yeah, we'd come down.
We'd come down here  And we'd frolic these little- we'd frequent these little bars and stuff like that.
And um, people from the neighborhood was in the bars.
And I would go in there and be like  oh, oh yeah, we're all grown up, we can drink, uh.
And I thought, aye this is nice.
Oh.
I'm seeing some trees and some nice good things happening.
Hm.
This is good.
I'm seeing a patch of grass.
You don't see a patch of grass, now you put it next to a church.
Now, we seeing a patch of grass  in a place where I used to s- play with glass.
Like I just told you, now it's grass here.
This is good.
Yeah.
This is.
Yeah.
This is good.
Yeah.
The waterfront.
It was, you know, homeless people who always relegated on the waterfront.
It was nothing to walk you know, walk by.
And I was just bike riding over there on the waterfront.
I'm like, it is fucking bike lanes and shit like that.
Why am I resenting these things?
And I'm thinking, you know why I resent this shit?
Cause it should have been here ten years ago.
It's so-  it's so  late  you know.
And so you know y- uh.
Uh.
I never- it didn't til then like people would come into the bars, and then now,  more and more, I'm coming to these bars  and there's new people coming in.
And they're not even from the neighborhood.
And now, the bar  the- the- the guys at the bouncers are telling us that we can't come in.
And that we don't have the right dress codes.
And it's l- Yeah.
And then I'm no- s- only s- I'm seeing this as this patterning.
Where old money is now old.
Now, people want new money.
And I've seen this spill into  businesses,  into where the land is used, the way businesses run.
Yeah, there-  this stuff, and the way landlords are-  harass residents.
We don't want you old residents anymore.
Your money was good to sustain us.
But now we got new people coming in.
And that's what I was feeling, like this money that I've invested in this community for ye- I'm twenty-nine years old.
How much money did I put in this neighborhood?
With my little checks.
Now, w- it's not for me anymore?
My first little dollar, I went right across the street to some bakery and bought something.
This is my neighborhood.
I've invested in it.
And m- when- when the parks weren't safe, that was a- that was  my mother and- and   and parents, they s-  they went and made complaints about that.
You know, they did.
They did community clean ups.
It was us when the city wouldn't even do it.
So,  it's like, wow.
And now I can't even go to no bar here.
Then I was looking for waitressing.
This is when it was really hitting me.
I'm looking for waitressing jobs in the middle.
And I th- my school let us out early, you'd get out in May.
S- I thought this was a benefit man, I'm like yo, this is a benefit.
We get out in May, I could definitely get me a little job.
I- I'm ahead of everybody.
No.
Could not find a job.
And I-  And I'd say  that I really- it was discrimination.
I really feel it, because  I- I know how to look for a job.
Kay.
I'm I know how to look for a job.
Trust me.
And when the job openings were there, I came, I was there,  and um.
All I did was leave resumes in every places and stuff like that.
And it really hit me when I was leaving one guy  he- fo- one guy he had a- he was doing interviews.
And he's like  he's just  finished this lady, and I said, oh.
I'm here for an interview.
He- he wasn't even acknowledging me either.
He's like  after he just interviewed her, he walked and started cutting lemons, and I was like  Oh, I'm- I'm here for a interview, it says that you're doing interviews, so I'm here for that.
He's like, oh yeah.
Okay.
I said  so,  are you  you know.
he says, no.
We're not doing it anymore.
I said  oh, okay.
Is there a time where I can come back?
He's like  Nah.
Just leave your resume.
Just leave it.
And I said, okay.
Thank you.
So then,  I  walked out, and I said, I- let me just go back in and ask him when is a good time to call.
So, I went back.
This motherfucker was throwing my resume in the garbage.
Throwing my resume in the fucking garbage.
I got my k- I got my way back with them  they used to keep this um,  freaking sign in front of the  the store all the time.
Man.
I called, make so many complaints.
And m- I don't know how many fines they got.
And uh- and you can follow up.
It's real.
It's- happens.
All you gotta- people don't even know.
All you got to do is call three-one-one.
Make the complaint, they'll give you a ticket number, a reference, you'll follow up It's so easy.
It's so easy.
And I got- they got at least two fines from me.
Cause I never kept track.
Yeah.
Fuck that.
Fuck that.
But, I'm like wow.
All these people that work in the n-  work in  in these stores, they're not even from the neighborhood.
I thought it must be a benefit.
But he- that was what he used to work against me.
He probably thought  um man, and this is what um,  another guy told me He was like, um  we usually don't  we- we had somebody here local.
I said, I worked here   I said, I'm local.
And um.
I'm flexible, I'm saying all things they wanna hear.
I'm like, I'm right here, so  whenever you need me, I'm on call.
That's a- that seems like a benefit for a restaurant.
Mm.
Like, yeah.
But,  we had some guy here  and he was hooking up his friends.
So, I was like, well that's that guy.
You know what I'm saying?
Uh.
And um.
He did.
They hired me.
They hired me to work, but then that made me realize,  like, um.
Just why people were not-  it made me  k- put things in perspective for me.
So, now I'm seeing the neighborhood change a lot.
The streets are getting more crowded.
Our neighborhood is no longer a neighborhood, it is a destination.
I look on the internet.
There's flashy beautiful colors.
And it's describing the Lower East Side like some real hipster place.
to go and have fun, and party at.
And it's not talking about the churches,  it's not talking about the schools, it's not talking about the families and hospitals.
Like things that constitute communities like  they're not talking about  those things in these  flashy little websites.
They're talking about  destination.
Then they're not punching gentrification on Google, that shit.
My neighborhood comes up.
That's fucked up.
That does- that d- that is really- that f- like imagine like just growing up here and seeing that shit.
That will fuck you're head up.
Like wow.
Places where it was crack vials  everywhere.
Now people wanna live here?
Or, when they saw a beautiful,  at the end of the day, I can't enjoy that?
It's something seriously wrong-  wrong with that.
Alright, well  you could break it up.
Um.
And  When you put the- when you break up the word,  you know, like come- k- k- like  unity.
You know.
Come and unify.
Come and unite.
Come-unity.
I- you know.
And what I think about is like, um.
Well, people actually tell me that  a lot- they don't have um.
People tell me that wow, you know what, your neighborhood is really like a village.
Like, you know, like  you really  people that come from outside, they be like.
Yeah.
They're like Well, they're no- not like a vill- more like a-  a k- like a real sense of community, like I went to school with people that I still s- I- I went to  p- I went to elementary school, and I still see these people.
And my f- my sister's woman.
She was telling me, that, you know, she goes back to her neighborhood in Staton I- Long Island or Staton Island.
One of those.
No, Long Island.
And  The block isn't the same, you know, everybody's not, you know.
She doesn't know everybody walking down the street, and then she- you know, if she does she just met them.
Where, when I'm walking down the street, I've known these people  since I was five.
Or you know, I've seen or we  it's very- it's deep how it's very like villagey over here.
Like everybody's been in each other's lives and then  a- for- for many years.
For many years.
It's deep.
And I'm like wow.
I don't wanna take I- I don't I wouldn't- I don't take that for granted.
Like- like my friend she- before I came here, I came here, I said, I have to go, I have a interview.
I have to leave, I have to go.
You know.
Um.
Do this interview.
Um.
But I went to- I went to preschool with her.
And We were ketchup sisters.
Cause our mothers would whoop our asses if we cut out, did some blood sister shit.
So, that was my ketchup sister.
We- you know, I still see her.
You know, like we- people know, like I can't put anything on anybody  In this neighborhood.
Cause everybody knows who I was when I was little?
Oh.
When I was little, I used to hope for this.
Right.
I wasn't- I used to work at Goldman Sachs.
This big time uh- a trading company on the Lower East Side.
And um.
I used to g- I was wondering, like why  well, people I worked with don't live over here.
And I used to tell my co-workers.
Cause I was young, I was a intern, and they put me on  full time.
Like, so I'm just like, they just liked the way I w- you know, work, so I'm working in this corporates s-  place full time.
And I used to say to my co-workers, like you co- you travel hours to get here.
You know I takes me thirty minutes.
I was like, I don't get why people don't live over here.
It's not as bad as people think.
I used to say that all the time.
It's not as bad as people think.
And then I saw, I remember this white couple coming in the neighborhood.
Because you had  white- when you saw white people in this neighborhood, They were on drugs,  they were a undercover cop, or maybe some artist that did not give a fuck.
Like, they was just like, fuck it, I'm a artist.
And, I'm not scared of none of y'all.
That's- that's what you had.
Those are the three types of white people.
That's it.
And um.
Just be honest, right?
So, I saw these two, I saw this white couple come, and I remem- I remember this day.
And they said we're looking for housing.
And I'm like  I'm telling them to- li- they should go to my projects, and I'm like, you know what,  my-  where I live at, my building's nice.
It's nice.
It's beautiful.
Y'all should move in there.
And then what I was thinking of, was like wow.
My neighborhood would get more mixed.
And everybody would be mixed.
Like, I always, always I've always liked that.
My mothers raised us like that.
The first time I said something bad about a white person, I didn't even know what that meant.
Because my mother's- one of my mother's best friends are white.
But I never looked- I never  put that connection.
I never thought of color or- I just really do- didn't.
Like I was that's how innocent it is.
And I'm just like  and I forgot so- oh.
Something happened with these- we got followed in the store  by these white people.
And I remember I came home  These white people.
They- I just came home crying about it and I was like  white people, they- I'm'a fuck them up.
They made me this- You know, I was so angry.
And my mother said, oh.
Oh.
You got all that about white people?
Oh.
Really?
I'm like yeah.
Fuck that.
I don't like them, you know what they make me say.
She go, oh.
Why don't you tell RD-NAME-2 all of that?
I'm'a p- I'm'a call her right now.
And I- I was like, tell RD-NAME-2?
And then, it li- it slowly dawned on me.
And I was like, no.
I remember, begging my mother and crying, like please don't call her.
Please don't tell her I said that.
Please.
But she goes, no, but she is white.
And you real right?
Go tell everything you told me, tell her.
And that's when I had to literally put things in perspective.
I've always wanted things mixed up.
Cause then I was like, wow.
You know what?
Then what it is, is what things that- like what society's teaching me  to make- you know, make these-  these differences.
It's not like I- I- I really should just take people for who they are.
I've always like mixing and whatever.
And But.
This is the thing.
No.
The mix- the mixing's not happening this time.
Because what I feel like, if you aks me, it's like a distain type of disposition I feel with n- the new folk coming in the hood.
Um.
Yeah.
You could just stand in the middle of the sidewalk.
Nobody fucking lives here.
Nobody gotta walk through.
And then um, it's-  it's more like um,  the people look- uh, loo- ask me for directions and don't look at me in my eye.
Mm.
Don't fucking ask me shit if you scared.
You know.
Don't do it.
The other day I was um   this lady, you could tell, she's illegally-  she's illegally uh  I don't know what she was doing over here, whatever, in m- in the projects over there.
But she was over there.
And you know,  I- cause I've seen her a couple of times.
I think she just knows somebody over here.
Or she's but the whole thing was, like she got a little nervous when we was walking out.
Like, I feel like she got a little nervous cause she looked and then  she started speeding up a little bit.
And that happens to me a lot.
So, it's like almost where I know, it's like, ah man.
Fuck that bitch.
And then um.
The other day,  uh.
I forgot somebody- I was loo- uh.
I was look- oh.
I'm sorry.
I w- I was looking for something  and um  now, I forgot what happened.
I just bumped in-  I bumped into this guy.
By accident I wasn't looking.
And this guy's like  He's like um,  Yo.
Fucking watch where you going.
And I'm looking at this white mother fucker  your ass is ballsy.
Cause  ten years ago, you wouldn't have even p-  curled your lip up, talk to me that way.
I know you wouldn't have.
And so just getting this.
Even when I go to bars, it's like  everybody don't get carded.
Then I come in, and I get carded, and it's like I- I o- I mean, I know I look young, but it's just like  all these little different things that  I noticed  that um.
I mean, one day, this lady.
We'd just- we was-  we was celebrating  um, winning a victory for affordable housing.
Just a- And this white woman.
She comes, she sits there, and she's like um.
She comes in and she's like um.
Oh, can I sit with y'all?
Cause it's so noisy in there.
So, I was like, ah.
I'm thinking she's a old school white person they're like the- the white people that's been here for years.
One of the white people that's been here for years.
And they don't They tired of the bar too, so I thought she was one of us.
I was like, hell yeah.
Come and sit down man.
Yeah.
We talking, we drinking.
And then she had a whole different idea of her existence in our community.
She was- when I told her about the- the af- affordable housing opportunities, she- she was like completely against that.
She was like  h- oh, I don't get it.
I mean.
You just should work  for what you get.
Like I worked  s- see where I am today?
I worked for that.
I earned this.
And this- if you ask me, we're making the neighborhood better.
This what she's telling me.
The neighborhood was shit  when people lived here before and als- and all this other stuff and  this lady's like going on about how my nei- Like how she's this benefit to my neighborhood.
And I couldn't believe it.
And I was like  I said miss, you looking at what we do.
We moving from things that are public  to now private.
You're looking at a town where nobody had control over  what repairs happened in their building.
Let alone in their apartments.
You have slum landlords who care less about the residents.
Then,  you- you- now we're moving to a more private  uh, sector, with everything  and now people wanna give a fuck about shit.
And now, landlords, wanna make sure things are correct  cause they gonna make more money off of that.
And I said, but  uh.
My mother fought for the change.
And the reason why we lived here, was not because of choice.
We was forced to.
There was no where else to live.
In this- in but this piece of shit hole.
And when we make the change, we should enjoy it.
You came here not  cause you didn't have a choice.
Because you wanted to.
Know what I'm saying?
It wasn't for Yeah.
Yeah.
It wasn- y- and she was just like I find myself like  she's just- she's just like, no.
I'm no.
I'm  we make the neighborhood better.
The people didn't appreciate it.
I'm like, well, you wasn't there when somebody called five or six times for their landlord to fix their house.
That's why these buil- that's how these buildings got decrepit   over a period of time.
You know.
You weren't here when the sanitation wasn't picking things up regularly.
This is the whole city.
Why didn't they pick up garbage as regularly as they did  in other parts of th- of the city?
You wasn't here when- for that.
So, you can't sit here and say that people didn't care about where they lived at, cause my mother did.
My mother cared about where we lived at.
And I'm happy and I'm fine.
And then, even the bars.
The new bar owners they have the same iadea.
Well,  nobody wanted to be here, and now we have these businesses  and I'm like man.
Y'all still disruptive, y'all still don't give back to the community.
And you still have people that-  that um  they're like yeah, lining up and- and causing ruckus in our- in our neighborhood.
Please.
Not serve the neighborhood.
You ask even anybody else too, like the long standing white people that lived in the neighborhood, those, they will fucking tell  they will say the drug dealers saved them.
I've s- I swear to God, they will say the drug dealers protected them from other drug dealers.
Like, that's what-  that's what it was.
I even heard this one time I was getting my taxes done and this guy, he was t- he was an old police officer in the area.
And he was like  yeah, this neighborhood was bad.
That's why I do this now.
And he was bragging about how  the- the cops would get called and they would wait for three  cop cars  to come to respond before they would get out the car do anything.
There had to be three on site.
And how none of them ever wanted to get there.
Of course.
Now, I've watched people die,  I've watched people die  in the street  cause no cops came.
I've watched that s-  that's my reality.
It's happened twice in my life.
Twice too many.
And I remember one time on Grand Street,  I'm looking outside and everybody's w-  out  o- there's no cell phones at the time.
People were out their windows like I saw every window with a phone.
And the ambulance took forty-five minutes to get there.
Those are the longest forty-five minutes I've ever seen.
And this kid died.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
It was a shooting.
And  cops used to shoot kids.
Cops used to beat up  kids in my neighborhood.
Y- people used to come back fucked up from cops.
This was it.
This was us.
This was it.
And.
So, yeah.
We deserve it and  you know w- why can't we-  we live with each other collectively?
I- I mean, why can't we  why can't there be an inclusin  uh- uh- a c- an um.
An inc- like an all inclusive community?
I'm down for that.
But,  you know, when they start  chartering all the schools up,  chopping them up, And you have PTAs that can actually support a commu- a computer lab, and do all this other stuff, and but they want it on their e-  they want it on their terms, and kids gotta take specialized tests in these public schools.
Man.
There's something wrong with that.
You know, so.
I remember wanting to g- I went, when after that lady, after I saw that lady, man.
I went home and cried.
I went home and cried.
And I wanted to like  Yeah.
I felt helpless.
And I was like, you know what miss,  I remember me telling her, like tryna hold back my tears, cause I'm very sensitive.
You know miss, you enjoy your food, and you have a nice  beautiful  night.
And I got up And I fucking  m-  literally was crying.
Somebody-  It was so funny too.
People have seen me cry in the street  about- and it's always about my neighborhood.
And they think it's about a guy, they be like wait, stop.
What's wrong?
What did he do to you?
And I'm like man,  look at that building!
Man, we getting displaced!
And I'm really, I'm joking, but  literally, just the other day I was crying on the corner.
Because I saw, like on Avenue D, it's all torn dow- Avenue D  is like the p- the- the- was the base- like it was like the- the Mecca of violence for the Lower East Side.
Okay?
It's the last avenue  in Manhattan, Kay.
And this is fucking a- it's not Avenue D, it's D Ave.
You know?
That's what it is.
Like  you a ?
I'm on the Ave.
There's thousands of Ave's in city but you on The Ave.
And that- that place was violent and now when you see development like a cuchifrito place that  I used to go to.
I rem- I have memories of going to the cuchifrito place  after h- after the hospital  for soup.
They had nice little chicken soup.
And I could go to the cuchifrito place and get that soup.
It was minority only.
Been there forever.
These are the businesses that were serving us when nobody wanted to, right.
Now, they're gone.
On the corner, gone.
We don't know what's gonna come of that.
I don't know what's gonna be built there.
But, I'll tell you this much.
I know it's not gonna be for me.
And that's why I got involved with  the organization.
Um.
Because, I wanted to be a more a part of the-  the solution, than a part of a problem.
And I felt like I was alone.
And when I came back from college,  uh,  one of the things that  in p- I lived in p- I was raised in public housing.
One of the things is if you are under-employed, or unemployed, you have to do community service.
Mandatory community service.
If you do not do it, the consequence is eviction.
This is a federal law.
That's only applicable, arbitrarily to residents that live in public housing across the country.
But, where does that come from?
Stigmatizations, right?
Stigmatizations of people that live in public housing.
They ain't shit.
Even subsidies, right?
You have those stigmatizations for that.
Subsidies.
Oh.
People are lazy.
They're bums.
And there's violence, and there's drugs and they living off the government.
They taking my tax dollars, and all of these things.
And   I really think that that's- those negative things are spill- they've- they spill into our everyday lives.
The way services are allocated and-  and in the way even  money's appropriated to them on our government levels.
The way police come into our community, the way policies are written,  these things spill,  these things stigmatizations spill into our realities.
And make it harder for us to live.
And so, here we got a federal lawyer, says, oh.
You have to do mandatory community service.
And I just came out of college.
And I got six months to find a job.
And that six months passed, and I didn't have a job.
Okay, I didn't.
Yeah.
And I was even waitr- that- that was before in the middle forget about that.
When it was towards my career, I was looking for other stuff, like teaching and stuff like that.
And  come on.
I couldn't.
I couldn't find a job.
And  so, that- that effected me.
You know.
And.
Um.
Then I see a fly- I was like totally against the community service requirement.
I'm like so, I gotta do ninety-six hours cause I can't find a job yet?
That's fucked up.
Or, my mother and all of us get evicted?
See, a flyer in my building and this-  this flyer telling people to do the community service.
I'm like who the fuck  is telling people to do this shit?
It was GOLES.
It was GOLES.
And there was a meeting, I said, oh.
Word.
They're telling people to do this slave shit?
I'm coming.
I'm on my way.
What date?
Boom.
I brought six homegirls.
My homegirls that I grew up.
I ain't seen them in years.
I just- I got, said, listen, yo.
Y'all heard about this community service shit?
Damn.
We need to go to this meeting.
Right, so, we came in there hooded.
Who's presenting?
Damaris Reyes.
and another member that we have, Amanda Morales.
And I'm like, yeah.
Let me sign y'all little sign in sheet.
Let me hear what y'all gotta say about this bullshit  community service.
Damaris was educating people.
And telling them, listen.
You have to do this community service,  cause it's a federal law and you can get evicted.
But, you know what?
the same way it's a federal law,  you can fight it on a federal level.
And here's the ways that you can do it.
And that's how I got involved with goo- Good Old Lower East Side.
It found me the work.
But,   that community service requirement shit was fucked up.
And I'm like damn.
I just came out of school.
Why is this only happening to me?
So, I'm seeing just a lot of  how- how my community's being singled out.
You know, and people t- People have these warped perceptions of like  tax dollars.
Like, the average- aver- the average ed- he average person like  my brothers, like  my brothers are even like  to- they're like some cons- they have these conservative views.
I'm like you  you a black man.
What are you fucking f- What do you mean?
You know, like they're even conservative.
Like No.
They believe that bootstrap shit too.
You know, like you gotta pull yourself up at your boot straps.
you have to pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
My- I'm working on a quote.
I haven't refin- I haven't-  bare with me.
The quote is though.
It's like, you know, we talk about this idea of, you know.
I believe in that  I- you know, I- I'm worried ab- here it is.
I'm worried about the person who actually believes  that they can pull s- they can pull themselves up by their boot straps.
Because, they're not thinking about the person that  has to make  the boots.
Clean the boots.
Sell the boot.
You know what I'm saying?
There's a whole other bigger picture around that fucking boot.
Okay.
Here we go, pull our selves up A lot goes into the boot.
You know, and we never think about those things.
Like, you know.
So, you gonna make- okay.
If everybody's pulling they own selves up by their bootstraps, does that mean they're gonna start making their own boots?
Is that what we  that's what that mean?
You gonna make them shine their own boots?
If we're gonna pull ourselves up by our own boot straps,  because then everybody's living  equally, and nobody's doing the, you know, like come on.
We know this is gonna always be an unjust society.
Everything- but does it have to be so hard?
Does inequality have to be so hard?
You know, I don't get- you know what I'm saying.
I just I always think there's gonna be some type of irocracy somewhere  but  I mean, hierera- hierarchy.
Like, you know, like boom, boom, boom, but  the end of the day,  g- does it have to be so hard?
You know?
But  that's tha- the- when- when I came back from my neighborhood,  and I'm seeing like, damn.
I gotta do community service, and this gentrification,  I wanna be up- I- I- I wanna fight this.
And then when I found- when GOLES gave me the vehicle,  I decided to be  a part of the solution.
Not the problem, not the complainer.
And not this person by myself.
You know.
I felt  I felt like people had my back.
I felt like GOLES was- Froze was my gang.
I did.
And I used to do things off the strength of-  Before I even worked there.
That's why I think RD-NAME-3 hired me.
Because I just- I would love my organization right?
And  I w- I would be like um  I would tell the- I would tell business owners.
Like, the- like uh.
This business owner.
There was a crowd.
It was all crazy in the front, and I was like, listen.
Um.
I'm a member of Good Old Lower East Side.
I'm a member of Froze.
And we don't like this shit.
And  if you want people protesting in front of your business,  then keep this going.
And, actually, the guy's like, nah man.
I feel y'all.
I'm from the neighborhood too.
He was a guy from the neighborhood too.
And he was like nah.
I know they act all cra- I said, man, control this shit.
Control this fucking  party on the block.
Because I can't party on the block.
When I stand on the block, I- I deal with youth.
When we stand on the block and talk,  cops stop us and tell us to keep it moving.
Or, I seen kids get strip searched in front of fucking mad people.
Where cops pull down they pants.
Pulling they pants.
And you got six squad cars.
And I'm like what was that kid doing?
Riding his bike on the sidewalk.
You know.
I've been harassed.
I've had a cop pull a gun   out on me once.
They had their guns drawn Because we was in the park playing basketball.
We had beads of sweat coming down our heads.
This is when I was younger.
And we was like, yo.
But, and this is when they started enforcing all that shit.
All the parks gotta be closed.
That sign was always there, but nobody ever f- forced that shit.
Now, they enforcing it.
No.
The parks gotta be closed.
And now, I got a gun pointed at me.
Man.