Yeah, my autistic retarded son  has a teacher that's dying of cancer.
And the man is younger than me.
The man is around I would say  maybe,  thirties I got a picture of him over there, and he worked with these kids.
He was their head teacher,  my son's group.
And he's the only one that could do anything with him.
In some of the cases.
Three k- and he wasn't sick.
No, he wasn't sick.
No symptoms.
No pain,  no loss of appetite, no loss of weight,  no loss of anything.
He had a blood clot in his foot and his foot swolled up, so that's what got them to looking.
And then, and then, he started passing blood through his stool.
And they started looking at that.
And the colon was clean.
Then they looked a little further in.
Pancreatic cancer.
And it spread to his spleen and his liver.
How long has he got?
Not long.
Why is it nasty?
Are they all so sneaky?
You kn- But,  he- you think he has a.
How long did they last?
With stage four?
Well he's.
Well, he got his first chemo treatment the other day.
But,  it's stage four  already and it's m- m- metastasized  to his spleen and to his liver.
He is young.
I'm'a show you his picture before you leave.
He's young, he's not a old man.
Eh.
Oh, I'm worried about my son now.
Cause, RD-NAME-1 was with him all these years.
The whole group was.
It's a group of them.
Y-A-I, Young Adult Institute.
Have you ever heard of it?
Mm-hm.
He's in their day, uh, day rehab.
On Thirteenth Street.
He goes out to work And uh.
You know.
Volunteer sites.
And um,  RD-NAME-1 was the head teacher of his unit.
And  it was fourteen of them in the class, and they held him down.
Him and two other teachers.
It's  three of them in there.
Yeah they st- k- they got the, they kept the group.
Mm-hm.
Now,  the- one teacher  that was in there,  RD-NAME-3 she made head teacher, so they moved her to her own room.
And now this happened, and he's not coming back, so there's only one teacher left.
And she's a Brazilian.
Cause they got a  Hungarian.
Are you ready for this?
A Hungarian volunteer, that doesn't speak too good English in there.
And they said my son loves her.
He was holding her hand, and then he grabbed a chair and pulled her next to him.
Oh  lord Jesus, I wouldn't wanna.
Oh see, now, but that- that- that behavior has to be addressed though.
Yeah, because, what happens when she doesn't find it amusing anymore?
Yeah.
Mm.
Mm.
Thirty-eight.
I got a picture of him too.
Yeah.
Oh, vertical patrol.
Okay, re- ve- ve- reger- vertical patrol is done when the crime is inside, not outside and not visible to the, uh, street.
And.
The police have to go into a building or another area, and what they will do  they will  patrol  check  every d- staircases, of the co- Down, right the hallways the doors, any doors that are open that may-  And the reason why they're doing that is to catch anybody using drugs,  or drug sale,  or anyone trespassing in your building.
See?
A lot of the stuff that the DA's office now uses like the Trespass affidavit program  that they rely on,  came from this case.
The- the strategy that that man, that I showed you developed.
He developed  alright,  the vertical patrol was always  a given.
But, it wasn't used very widely cause it's dangerous.
And the captain had to okay it.
And he said to the captain,  I wanna do some other creative stuff,  in RD-ADDRESS-5 and I really would like to work with the tenants there.
Uh-  Cause there are some tenants that don't want this.
fine.
So, the captain gave him a free hand.
He developed  a little strategy called, um,  Inquiry plus escort.
This became  this is what the DA's office use right now.
When  they want to  slow down  or interrupt as they say, the marketplace.
This guy here, RD-NAME-5, standing in the front of the door  in the front of the lobby.
by  where-  where the bells are  and as people come in, he would say, hello, how are you?
And how can I help you?
And where are you going?
And if they would tell him they were going to the drug floor to see the drug dealer,  he said, just one minute.
Are you going the same place?
He said, well you see,  these two gentlemen here, they're gonna escort you to the door because you see, uh, this building is not safe, and we don't want anything to happen to you.
And they're gonna make sure the drug dea- they'll make sure the man lets you in, and make sure he's home and he'll let you in.
You don't mind do you?
No.
Well,  some of them.
You know.
He just didn't open the door th- when they got up there, but  after a while, they would see him standing in the front  and not even come in the building.
So that shut- that shut down the tra- that shut  down the um,  traffic.
Immediately.
So.
Wait a minute.
This is some Let me connect it.
That was  a police- this was a program reaching out to the community.
Because, the woman that trained me also trained them and suggested that we meet.
See, the Lower East Side was right for that because of the fact, it was a-  a- a-  a lesson  that this is a place  that  nurtures  advocacy,  nurtures  organization nurtures  people changing their situation for the better.
As a result,  the building was cleaned up,  the people learned a  new  respect for the police department, they don't have the attitudes they had when they first moved in this building.
And, we haven't had that  kind of drug dealing  ever again.
So, I went on to tell my story to all over New York and then  all over the si- states  and then all.
Then people from all over the world came in to talk about it.
I did  England three times, Paris three times, even in South Africa.
Uh.
Australia, Melbourne Hm.
All these different police.
That's correct.
So,  I will say to you.
The first lesson  we learned,  thank God I learned it,  is how do you live in a nei- in a building  in a city  in a neighborhood with people different races, creeds, and color?
Without killing each other.
Why is that important?
It's important because when tragedy hits,  if this bond had not  been  m- been  been created, when tragedy hit as of Nine Eleven,  and we saw what real hate was.
Or, when the lights went out  and we saw how much we really needed one another, we were all there in the backyard with the barbecue going, and everybody took  food out of their refrigerator because they didn't want it to spoil, and that's how we ate.
Cause lights didn't come on here til almost three days.
Or, it could be something as simple as your landlord writing you a letter telling you that in less than a year,  you are not going to be subsidized anymore, the contract is up.
Tra-  That happened in two thousand and four, and there's a good chance the person you reach out to  and person that you  or extend a helping hand to will look very different than you.
They will either be a different race,  a different religion, or a different sexual orientation.
Or a combination of both.
And unfortunately,  you're gonna have to work very closely with them, a bond will have to be created  if you're gonna be successful in keeping a roof over your head  or getting food in your belly.
Or relocating all together, because  your place was damaged by the by- m- the terrorists.
See.
These are lessons  that were so important that.
And you can't do this with hate in your heart.
You can't hate white people, you can't hate Jewish people, you can't hate  hispanic people, and you can't hate gay people.
Because they will probably be the ones that will come to your rescue.
That's the first lesson.
The second lesson is  you must be willing to do something about it.
And stick to it.
Because at the time I moved in here, I didn't know anything about anything.
But, by the time my contract was up in this building in two thousand and four, I was able to put a plan together  in which to save it.
And we got fifteen more years, so our contract is now up in two thousand nineteen.
And we were the only ones on the Lower East Side that got  fifteen years  at that point.
I was able to do that because I was able to get  all my elected officials  and  the people in this building, they finally woke up.
And  Anyone that I could talk to, I used any vendor,  any opportunity, whether it was a rally, a press conference,  to  air my cause.
To give it some publicity.
The New York Times came here and did a article  on the building.
I was gonna make the cover, but I was.
But, something else  took the cover that day.
I was in the Metro section.
Front the.
Huge  Yeah.
Uh.
Yeah,  the cover would have been even better.
And.
And um,  then I learned  how to get a bill passed, because right after that,  Alan Gerson wrote Local Law Seventy Nine.
That is the one that gave tenants the right  to buy their building.
Oh.
And for once, black  people, hispanic  people, white people, poor people, all came together, and stayed together for the two years to make sure that bill passed the city council.
And we passed a bill  by forty-eight to three.
That's right.
And the mayor was smoking.
He overrid, but nobody was concerned about his little exercise of penmanship.
So that's why- no, because we had the override automatically.
We overrid it forty-five to three.
Five people went on vacation, it was August.
That's right.
And the mayor went to court.
That's the reason why he went into court, to make sure that  he get the power to select what bills he can affor- w- enforce.
And why the city council let him get away with that, I don't know.
But, this man has too much power.
But, back to the Lower East Side,  I've seen changes.
From the time I moved here, where the organizing was rich,  and there were small businesses and ma and pop businesses,  and you could go knock on.
You could go into a store with your  flyers  and your  material  will-  will you post this?
Will you join this?
And we all worked together here.
That's the way we survived.
That doesn't exist anymore.
Well,  they brought in a lot of  high end businesses, a lot of bars,  a lot of people  paying  two thousand five hundred dollars.
The rent-  rent-  r- um,  vacancy decontrol killed us.
Literally.
The landlords have taken advantage of this to make this money and they have  thrown out a lot of the people that were here.
Wholesale.
Wholesale.
Every- now.
Ever- I think it's the destruction of the Lower East Side.
It takes away from its power.
See, what made the Lower East Side special  and different and powerful  is that everyone who came from a different place learned from someone else.
And,  this buil- this area was conducive to organizing, to uh,  advocacy.
And it took the average person and turned them into someone that cared about it's community  that was  educated about it's community and the different issues and that was able to  put all of that action into a-  a  act  with other people  to make  things to change things to make a difference.
That  is going by the wayside, because when you bring in white rich people.
Excuse the front, but  yuppies.
Oh, who will argue with the captain of your precinct  because he asked them  on Ludlow Street  uh,  could you keep down the noise and not smoke?
Because the smoke is going around.
He told 'em, look bitch,  I pay two thousand five hundred dollars in this bitch, I will make as much noise as I want to here, and I will smoke as many cigarettes  I want to.
I'm outside.
Get the fuck out of my face.
You see,  I feel on one hand,  sorry for the captain, on the other hand, no, because see this is what they wanted.
They weren't happy  when it was Hispanics and Blacks.
E- No.
They thought that when they brought in the whites,  they were gonna have  you know,  less crime and  uh, they were gonna have less issues, and  people that they could work with and be quiet whe-  n- mm- no.
No.
Different crime.
Yes.
Different issues, yes.
But not in-  in severity.
And I've actually heard white people  now  o- at these meetings  they had that bar thing,  well, what do you want?
The drugs or the alcohol?
Like, knowing with the alcohol comes ecstasy  and um,  methamphetamine.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, they don't know that.
Mm-hm.
ecstasy, designer drugs and meth.
Mm-hm.
A lot of luxury housing.
Putting you in odds  in your neighborhood for people that  have millions of dollars, I mean really rich people.
They had literally had  around the corner on New York Finds  on Sunday morning at eight thirty  where they  showcase all those rich.
Yes.
All those rich   condos.
Fif- they were talking about  Attorney Street.
Around the corner from here.
That building.
Yes.
Yes.
One point five million.
Then we had the building on Avenue B.
That's another one.
That's telemarketing.
See, what the don't understand this is This is not a private home.
And um.
See,  n-  you know,  telemarketing this is not a private home man.
When.
No, but this is not a private home.
You can't put  any kind of cable system in this building.
Unless, you get the landlord's approval.
Cause I don't own this apartment I just rent this apartment.
So, you calling the wrong person.
Yeah.
So.
No, uh.
We still have a lot of issues.
One,  that contract that I fought so hard to get here, It's not secure.
It's subject to appropriation.
What that means is  if they don't appropriate enouch enough money,  to cover the contract, then there is no contract.
And these people  can be thrown out.
O-  into the street.
And within thirty days.
Everybody.
If If  the landlord gets really nasty  and decides  he wants to change the use of the building.
Sold.
No, it's sold.
Use of the building, instead of from a rental, he goes to a condo.
Or a co-op.
You will not get a voucher to stay here.
You will have to leave.
And then we have a little thing going on called equity  predatorial  predatorial equity.
My good friend, RD-NAME-4,  who was the president of the tenant association,  at RD-ADDRESS-8 building was just bought in the month of October for a hundred and seventy million.
Now, the building's only four hundred and ninety units.
Okay.
And the contract is up on that in two thousand ten.
So, you know what the landlord plans to do there.
If he changes the building into a condo,  if you can't afford to buy your apartment,  you will have to leave.
And there's a lot of seniors in there.
Where are they going?
And he can inflict this within thirty days  after the contract expires.
Because, you see, that's wha- Yeah, so lo- local law seventy-nine was-  was put  t- was passed to-  to offset that.
But the st- state shut it down because they said the city did not have a right to  to restrict sales.
And now we got this predatory lending.
And it's.
E- my building could be sold for the same amount.
They don't care about  a-  a fifteen year old HAP contract.
They'll find some creative way to get out of it.
No, you have to stay vig- vigilant.
And make sure that your building doesn't fall under that  and make sure if they try to sell it, their HUD  at least  is aware of it and is willing to do something about it because HUD can nix a sale.
As they did in Starrett City in Brooklyn.
Remember?
Yeah.
In Brooklyn, you know were Starrett City is in Brooklyn?
Oh, yeah.
They were- that wa- tha- that was  uh, supposed to be bought and the city had said no.
But, it didn't help Independence Plaza.
That was bought for a hundred and fifty million.
You know, Independence, uh-huh.
And the rents are going up.
They're sky high and they have them in court and they're still having that issue.
That's a  when that came out.
See.
And.
Times is hard, you can't be just  disaplay- di-  you know,  displacing people on a whole sale.
And these developments are large.
Uh-huh.
That's a long.
You seeing that long hallway?
Kay, the drug dealer lived on fir- in a th- in apartment Three-o-one.
Hi- his Three-o-one.
No.
Three-o-two.
The- the second apartment.
His line was from his apartment all the way to Houston Street.
How many people is that?
How many people can stand on a line to buy drugs?
That's ho- that's how it was in here.
But,  no, this place have change.
It's lost its charm, it's lost its power.
Its lost.
See, When you take people that were willing to fight  together to make things better, You lose the momentum, you lose the power.
These rich people that come in here, they don't care about anybody.
They want you gone.
They're not gonna live next to you.
They don't wanna see your kids hanging out, they don't want to see you doing anything.
That is not  what their standards should be.
And they believe because they're paying rent, they're supposed to have special privileges.
And that's a  luxury building around the corner from me, there's gonna be one  here up on Stanton Street.
Mm-hm.
You saw i- the- mm-hm.
And the one next to that,  those both are gonna be luxury.
Now, the only thing the only thing that's saving my building is that Common Ground is going to build next to me.
Yes.
Common Ground is going to be a two hundred and sixty unit.
Yeah, that's the only thing, but.
I don't know.
Okay.
Okay.
I used to think that  North of Houston was the East Village,  but it's really not.
It's still part of the Lower East Side.
But it's.
Historically it was, but it's  that's changing rapidly.
Because, um.
They have a lot of expensive shops and a lot of expensive buildings and they killing it.
Now, the Lower East Side really is  It's hard to say because it's-  it's  slowly, but surely,  losing  the Lower East Side.
Now, we have from Houston Street  to  Henry Street.
It still reminds you of the Lower East Side,  And Madison Street.
For now.
They still  have a littl- Lower East Side flavor.
Chinatown  has the  flavor.
But, maybe not for long.
Barbey Street  has the flavor.
So, let's say Houston from Bowery to  the East River.
And from Houston to    uh, East Broadway.
It's the Lower East Side.
Going west?
Houston going west?
No.
He-  It used to be.
But that's going.
It's slowly it's-  it's dissolving.
Why woul- Yeah.
It's dissolving.
It's becoming more and more white.
You don't see too many Blacks anymore.
In fact, they're trying to get Blacks out of.
No, they're trying to get Blacks out or rent stabilize  in  little tiny  apartments.
You're not gonna see any Blacks or Hispanics.
I notice in all the bars that they created,  and you know how many bars we have.
Have you ever noticed this?
How many blacks do you see in there?
Go to the bars?
No, but if you ever look in there.
Uh-huh.
Why is that?
Black people don't like to drink?
Mm?
No.
I mean, can you believe that?
They're not I noticed when we had our little party at  the um   bar on Allen Street.
Uh, Allen and Stanton.
Yeah.
He's named after um,    one of the uh, actors that played  on that series of  Come Back Mr.Carter or Go ba-  Uh.
You remember that?
At- that- as- a- Uh, it's called uh, Benny.
Barba- no.
It's called  Epstein's Bar.
It was named after.
Yeah.
It was named because of the character Epstein.
Mr.
Kotter.
Yeah, we did.
When Local Law Seventy-Nine was passed.
And I went talked to the guy  the owner, and I said, look, I'd like to bring in fifty organizers and what not.
We-  we a fun bunch and-  and he said, okay.
I'll give you a special rate.
Drinks are one dollars, two dollars and three dollars.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We- honey, you- oh yes it- they- It was so good, they had a t- Tequila drinking contest.
Boy, they can drink too.
But, I noticed the people in the community were looking at us.
We got some looks that didn't make me k- very  feel very.
Yes.
They are.
They are.
But.
Well, you have to be willing to  work with other people, you have to be willing to  lend your services to make a difference.
Yes, they all part of the community, but they g- they're getting- numbers are getting smaller and smaller as the rich developments are move in.
Are not.
No.
Oh.
If they're willing to uh, uh, not be so selfish.
And actually participate and lend themselves to making a condition different.
And not one that's  Not one that doesn't only serve their cause.
And I don't see that.
They really don't want us around.
Trust me.
Oh, no, they make it crystal clear.
The building on Houston Street,  next to Barrier Free Living.
That tall building.
One right next to Barrier Free Living, like Barrier Free Living is here, and the building is there.
I tried, I went in there when they first opened up to see if I can  get an apartment.
And she said  Oh, we don't-  we don't do  u- applications.
That's passe.
What we do is docume-  mm.
What we do is documentation.
And the be- most doc- the one documentation you must have is the one that says you make seventy-seven thousand dollars.
Then we go further.
If you don't make seventy-seven thousand dollars, you're not even considered for that building.
And the um, studio apartments start at fifteen hundred.
And that was years ago.
Okay.
Alright?
It's right off of the FDR Drive, you come right up and then.
Yeah.
And she gave me the tape.
You think those people wanna be bothered?
No.
You think the people that gonna move into Avenue B and um,  se-  And uh Houston, are gonna wanna be bothered?
You think the people around the corner o- on- on  Attorney Street  are gonna wa- one point five million dollars are gonna wanna be bothered?
No.
They're not gonna be interested in no community.
Clinton Street.
Uh.
Delancey.
Orchard.
Yeah.
Where the- where.
Yeah where you shop.
Packmark Uh-huh.
E- p- and Key Food.
And Fine Fare.
And Fine Fare.
Whoever got what on sale.
Yeah, and um.
Lemme see where else.
The  nail places, and the hair places.
Yeah.
I mean, this is the area where I can get whatever I need whenever I need it.
So, there's a l- I like that.
I like being able to walk out my door and go around the corner and get my nails done, if I wanna get my hair done, wanna get colored da da da da da da.
By the way, in this building, they got  people that do that too.
Yes lor- i- Yeah.
If you wanna pay 'em.
No, I mean they have hairdressers in the building, they have everything.
Nails.
You can get your nails.
But and the I can't- you can't beat the Chinese for doing your toenails and your your nails.
They are- they are very good at that.
Yeah.
And they ha- but I noticed something else that they have  these massage.
They have these high end now.
Nail places on Houston, and on Avenue B.
Yeah.
High end, where they offer you wine with it.
Mm-hm.
On Avenue B.
Uh no.
On Avenue B.
Yeah, if you walk straight up Avenue B.
you'll see it.
It's a i- not too far in, it's not I mean, I'm serious.
Between s- first and second.
I looked at this, I said oh.
Excuse me, is right next to the chiropractor.
Yeah, something- yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, um.
And then um,  Those buildings are expensive.
You see, it changes the whole.
They have a organic cleaner.
Organic cleaner, nail place, pizza place chiropractor.
There's a vet.
The vet is on uh, Sixth Street.
Yeah, the- uh- s- wa- Oh.
Yo- They moved?
On Avenue B?
How was it?
It's on Fourth Street?
Are they expensive though?
Yeah.
Yeah.
How expensive was the one  on Fourth Street?
Yeah, how much is the bloodwork?
Mm-hm.
How many cats you have?
Eh.
Oh.
You don't know if you don't change their diet, they will be getting sick.
Cat balls and They get- they  You have to vaccinate them.
I mean, she told me ninety-two dollars for for the whole thing.
E-  I mean, i- Animals are- that's why I don't have a cat now.
I had a cat, Sarah Anne, for seventeen years.
And Miss Thing is  she took  I'm spoiled to a new art form.
But now, everyone is talking about.
See here.
This is RD-NAME-1  Oh God, this man is always sending me something.
Him.
I get all this- I know you do.
Mm-hm.
It's not the Chinatown rezoning.
It's the Lower East Side rezoning.
Well no.
Chinatown was not included.
And now, they're gonna expand it because, um.
It was originally from  Thirteenth Street.
To uh  Thirteenth Street  to, uh  Thirteenth Street  from Third Avenue to the river,  all the way to Grant Street.
I think  And we- and we had  and I had to learn about zoning.
And about  Oh god.
I- I had to learn about that, and I got very annoyed.
Originally,  that land was cleared  because they  promised that we're gonna have low income.
Sheldon Silver don't wanna put nothing- low income there.
No, that's how it is.
It's been baking for thirty five years.
Sheldon Silver does not wanna put anything low income there.
Because, it's been my  I mean, I heard that  developers  who do low income and  high end income  offered to do a fifty-fifty.
He didn't want it.
When they went to um.
Yeah.
The Co-ops.
Those are the ones, I mean, they were ugly.
The- we- we had our special, uh,  public hearing about it.
They hired  every private c- this was the- Yeah.
They hi- They hired  every  private  cab company and they came in droves.
There had to be about  thousands of them  in that community room.
In that- ar- auditorium, PS Twenty.
Yeah, the only reason I got in, I grabbed hold of Alan Gerson's  um,  one of his-  his aids,  by the back of this  man's pants.
And when  we went- when- when he moved,  we all moved together.
Like, you know,  Like a caterpillar.
And I had to end up sitting on the floor.
It was ugly.
Alan didn't show u p.
It was ugly.
And they gonna tell us what for.
If you have low income people in a certain area, it's a ghetto.
We don't want those people there.
Mm-hm.
Same problem.
Probably, probably give you.
Yeah.
Of course, I mean, they're gonna push who keep they market value  They're selfish people.
We call them the Klan of the Lower East Side.
Mm-hm.
The only thing that they don't wear sheets.
I'm serious, these people are outrageous.
They wanna protect their investment at all costs.
They don't want any low income or  low-middle income.
See, the low-middle income people are  not on anybody's radar.
Yeah, because they make more money.
If you single and you making over twenty-nine thousand,  Then you don't fit in any category.
You m- You're not.
You make too much money for the land program.
Enough.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Some  buildings, some co-ops  and condos for people  in that specific category.
Yeah, because they don't have anything.
If it's done right.
But very rarely is it done right.
And I seen it done right in only one place.
In Denmark.
In Copenhagen.
And the bui- and the name of the- of the place was Christiania.
That's right.
Where they sell the- the drugs.
They actually had a example  of  residents who took over a barracks  who actually developed the barracks.
And was there thirty-five, maybe forty years.
I think- I heard they kicked 'em out though.
I don't know  what happened to them, but.
They had actually had  private houses on one side  and they had uh, middle income here, low income there.
But, the apartments weren't- and then everybody lives Yeah.
If it's done right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well.
I would like to see a combination  of Home Depot and Mom and Pop.
See.
Yeah.
Um.
But, different types of mom and pops.
Like a um.
If you're gonna do a Home Depot,  then we need a extensive  um  discount  medical  supply and  beauty.
Yeah.
So we can get our nail polish and makeup and and our hair products and our  and our- by- and have a Body Works.
A Body Shop there.
Our Body Works.
Yes.
And a Whole Foods.
Well, yeah, I would like  that and  Whole Food and uh, maybe uh  Farmer's Market.
So we can come there and get our vegetables that's reasonable.
I've been trying to get RD-NAME-3 who's husband  is a farmer  bring down some of her vegetables, sell it outside of University Place, and she tell me no.
University sell, but she told me no.
It wouldn't  they would't pay her to do that.
Cause her husband is a farmer.
Yeah.
Produce.
It's not the same.
Farmer's Market place for someone who farms.
Mm-hm.
You mean with that little area?
If they don't.
There would be hope if they wou- if it wasn't for Sheldon Silver, but because he is reigning over that, and his-  and his  constituents  are the co-ops.
This man has a enormous-  enormous amount of power.
A lot of power.
People don't realize how powerful he is.
Excuse me.
I'm'a get my water.
Mayor Bloomberg- Oh.
Can I offer you some water?
Mayor Bloomberg is uh, pow-  thought he was powerful until he ran up against Shel- Sheldon Silver and you saw what real power was.
But.
Power  corrupts.
Absolutely.
He doesn't want any low income near us, which would put a further strain on the community.
It would further destroy the Lower East Side.
No.
I don't want we don't- we don't w- need any twenty three story buildings.
No.
Yeah.
Definitely.
You know.
We need uh,  six story,  seven the most.
Eight the most.
But,  you can't have  inclusion area zoning unless they're  higher.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Especially for people like you and your husband.
Who are not making a lot a lot of money.
But, y'all cannot  find an apartment  that you'd be happy with  based- that you can afford.
Can you?
You stuck out there with nothing.
And at you and your husband's salary, you should be able to buy your first little condo.
Uh- yeah.
You need to tell Sheldon Silver You need to tell Sheldon Silver.
Write him a letter.
Dear sir, my name is so and so and so and so.
I am an anthropologist, my husband is a da da da.
We make da da da.
We cannot afford to buy.
There's nothing out there for us.
Would you consider allowing  that land to be developed some um, condos that we could buy?
I'm serious.
I would write him.
Not as long as Sheldon Silver is there.
As long as people in the co-ops are like they are.
And those people are a bull over there.
Not all of them, but a significant number of them.
 And very selfish.
They think they're better than everybody else.
I see 'em.
Unless the community really comes together, and I mean really comes together and really gets ugly and say look.
Uh.
Finds a law, a loophole, a something to strong arm  Silver,  into doing it,  not gonna do it.
Cause those people over there.
Yes it is.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
If that will matter to them.
But you see, you have a lot of people that moving in that they don't care  what the history of the place is.
All they want is their immediate gratification.
I'm here.
This is my apartment.
I live here.
In the summers, I'm at the Hamptons, I'm in Europe, blah blah, you know what I mean?
They're not interested in the history.
Very few people will be.
Until something bites them.
We have a hurricane and they're flooded out.
Cause you know, if we- if we get hit with a hurricane, what's gonna happen the- here.
Right?
All of this is gonna be flooded.
Mm.
We have a contract  that expires two thousand nineteen.
Mm-hm.
And then we'll have to leave.
Because  the federal government  is  does not  make the landlords stay in the program.
They can't.
He can leave the program.
And I know  if things  continue  to go up in this neighborhood the way they've been going up,  more luxury than anything else.
The landlord will be encouraged to,  if not sooner,  find some way to either end the contract, or when it ended, you know you going.
And he's gonna change the use of the building so that you  tha- you can't- you can't use the voucher here  to stay here.
Yeah.
Well.
Unless the co- Unless  of course  you come into a lot of money.
Cause this area so far is very rich, unless something drastic happens.
And then you may not wanna live here.
So it's rough.
Well Yeah, I mean, I'm here.
I understand it.
I know how to get things done.
So far.
Um.
When that changes completely,  then I'll be ready to leave.
Yeah.
If i-  nothing changes, and it goes in the same  direction it's going now.
Then it'll be predominantly white  and predominantly rich.
Mm-hm.
Very easily happen.
Yeah, sure.
You see, if you offer people enough money,  everybody has their price as they say.
Like Common Ground.
Common Ground is determined to get rid of housing.
I mean, get rid of  homelessness.
Okay.
Let's say  they wanted to  buy this building and that one.
Now, if they bought Ricky's building for a hundred and seventy million,  uh-huh.
You get the point?
How much are they willing to pay  for these two?
Two hundred million?
Do you think Common Ground would sell?
Huh?
Uh-huh.
A hundred million.
As long as there's a marketplace for it.
The market doesn't change?
No.
Cause these markets m-  change every place else but New York.
See, what annoys me is the roommates.
These white people come in with they- with they goddamn roommates.
And they ruin it.
They- they- they  move into these a- buildings  with they goddamn roommates.
Everybody pays a thousand dollars or fifteen hundred dollars  and nobody is holding anybody accountable.
And we have to suffer because  they  ha- must have some place to live  cause they wanna live on the Lower East Side and they're willing to pay anything to do so.
And um, they don't.
And then once they get in there, the landlord screws 'em royally.
He goes from a yearly lease to month to month  because you complained about something.
I've seen that scenarios play out in the GOAL's office so many times.
They come in there crying.
Yeah.
And they w- actually wanna have the nerve to use somebody else  use  low income people to help them fight their cause.
Because they know they rich bitch people ain't gonna help them.
So, they're selfish.
They are ve- i- these kids, young people coming in the build- are selfish.
I mean very selfish.
All they wanna do is go to work, and hang out at the bars, and come home.
Or go to dinner.
They don't cook.
They wanna go to the bars after work, or  on the weekends.
Right?
And then on family days, to either going to their mother's or father who don't live here.
Mm-hm.
Summer vacation, Europe.
Yeah.
They're not interested in no community.
They're not interested in building or changing anything.
No.
They're interested in their own selfish needs in their own little world.
Sad to see what happens here.
But, like I said  I would write that letter.
Let everybody know, I exist and tha- there's nothing for me.
Yes.
Yes.
Say, look.
You need to develop some co-ops for me.
Cause I heard Brooklyn had developed some condos in Yak in Yatsee's district.
Yeah.
Are you living on Lower East Side now?
Oh my God.
In what?
No, but Fifth and what?
Between what and what?
Are you living in RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-3's building?
RD-NAME-5 RD-NAME-5 lives in Fifth Street between A and B.
Yeah.
She lives in the HFC.
Okay.
How is it?
How expensive is it?
Where in Brooklyn?
You know where Freddy's is?
The bar?
You know the owner?
RD-NAME-4 She own Freddy's.
She trained me.
Remember in the story I told you?
They called- that was- that- that was her boss.
Freddy's.
So,  yeah, I used to go to Freddy's and they did the whole Williamsburg.
They got  them people over there are racist.
No, they racist.
They're racist.
They are racist.
I mean the older people- I used to walk through Williamsburg, because I was giving a talk at the Ninetieth precinct  and the Ninety-four.
And not so much when I went to the Ninetieth, but when I went to the Ninety-four,  I had to walk past the park.
I mean, the looks I got  I used to have to tell them, look, I know RD-NAME-2, and I'm a organizer.
And don't look at me that way.
Yeah, they don't want no blacks running around, new black people running around the neighborhood.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.