We were talking about drugs in the neighborhood.
Well,  this is like, in a later- latter part of the sixties,  and the early part of the seventies.
Y- crime b-  increased.
It's not something that I saw or experienced.
Um, I saw drugs.
I saw people roaming the street, drugged out.
I remember two things.
One was this guy who used to be- he was a fixture in the West Village,  who used to skate around, and it wasn't rollerblades then it was the four wheels, with- in a clown costume,  with a little umbrella.
I remember him.
That had to be drugs.
I remember the electric circus that was on Eighth Street, right?
And I also remember- I have this vivid memory- you'll notice that-  of, um, somebody-   this woman walking around naked.
In panties,  holding a birthday cake.
And she was huge.
I w- I will always- how can you lose that memory, right?
No, she was not sober.
And I also remember and know who the drug addicts were in- i- in the- in the  projects.
You know, so to that extent, yeah.
Did I s-  Yeah, but what happened was  as I-  as I went through school,  I became  s- for- for lack of any other words, segregated.
Because I was part of that,  um,  that gifted program- the talented and gifted program.
So  they s- I s- j-  I- when I st- went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  the  people in my class,  there were a few people who went to the junior high school,  but they weren't in my class.
And my class stayed to the-  together for the two years that I was there.
And they were from other parts of the city, like from the Upper West Side.
What was interesting was that they had two,  um,  S-P programs.
And it's- it's funny, I wonder if they think that children don't notice this,  but in the two programs, one was white,  all white kids.
And they  they took the French classes,  and started them on French.
And then the other class  every- was everybody else.
Right.
So  we were- and of course I was in the everybody else, but my everybody else class wasn't all black, because this is a very diverse city.
So it was everybody in this class.
Um,  and- no, we took Spanish.
But the-  but the great thing about it is, like, I remember there was this guy named RD-NAME-1 who was Indian.
And this in the sixties, you know, and,  um, I don't know if you've heard of Baba Olatunji?
He's a African drummer.
He- he's since died, but his son,  um, he had I think  three daughters  and one son.
And his son Kwame  was in my class.
And we were t- I stayed in touch with him  through high school.
He ended up going to Harvard.
His father, I found out later, went to-  to Morehouse.
And like, fast forward- and I remember going to his house, he- they had a  fabulous apartment.
on Riverside.
In hindsight, He- I realized that he liked me.
He had a crush on me.
I didn't know that then, I was clueless.
I wish I was a little bit smarter.
But he liked me.
And he invited me to his house, and I remember going and it was like, this formal dining room.
I didn't even know how to act or how to eat or anything.
And we had these, like,  beautiful china plates and  there were all these people.
His family, and his mother and in this beautiful African dress, and his father was there, and it was all very, you know, formal.
I'm like, okay.
And fast forward and years later I saw him, you know, off and on like, after college and we were  working and doing our thing,  And he,  um,   he died.
I had heard through- and I couldn't figure out- I don't remember who told me,  but he died.
He died in like, this- like, mysterious drowning accident.
And  it broke my heart.
And I d- cause I had seen him like, I- maybe a few months or a year before whatever.
And  I felt like I didn't have a way of grieving.
And fast forward, I was at a friend's wedding.
She had a wedding,  um,  in  someone's house.
It was one of these home-grown weddings, and it was in someone's house.
And  th- this friend was a friend through friends, and we became friends.
And her husband, it turns out to be, went to Morehouse.
And her  brother  went to Morehouse.
And her brother  was Spike- is Spike Lee.
And it turns out, that Spike and Kwame  were friends.
And they were like, best friends.
And her m-  and his-  Kwame's mother officiated at the wedding, which was Spike's sister's wedding.
And she-   It was like this- if- it's like it all came back together.
It was really weird.
But what I found out was, and this is their story so- but,  um,  because Spike has, I guess,  there are three or four of them boys and one girl, and the RD-NAME-4 had three or four girls, and one boy, they put the families t-  together.
And the fathers were both- are both musicians.
Spike's father is still alive, but Kwame's isn't.
And they had the boy- the families came together and they played often.
So as I was playing with Kwame,  in junior high school, he was playing with Spike.
Spike n- I knew in  college, because Spike went to Morehouse.
So it was like all of these little threads came together, you know, like twenty years later.
You know, it was so weird.
So weird.
But, um,  that was just a- a-  a- story out in- in space.
But it was, it was a s- really kind of weird.
But-   from junior high school I went RD-SCHOOL-5.
Yeah.
Oh, it was great.
There was a- um, an annex where you went for tenth grade that was down on- well, I don't know the name of that street.
It's down below- past Grand.
But you know that- that- Madison.
But taking us into that neighborhood, that neigborhood- we didn't even talk about that neighborhood.
That neighborhood was so much fun  outside of the food, like, there used to- there's a bialy shop down there, now.
Right?
That bialy shop used to be on Fourteenth Street.
Between A  and B, where the pizzeria is.
You know, like, I wish I could recreate that block.
I knew there was a Shraff's- Shriff's?
Candy store.
A toy store, there was a Woolworths, there was a bialy shop.
I'm trying to remember what was on that street.
But, um,  so I went to school down there, everybody was down there.
It was kind of cool because the Essex Markets were still alive and well, on both sides of the street.
We used to go down there-  not- we didn't do our shopping, we did some but I don't remember my mother going down there.
I'm trying to remember where did she shop?
My mother used to sew,  so she would buy- there were tons of fabric stores down there.
She would buy fabric and make our clothes, and she would buy yarn.
She was a- this huge knitter, and there was  these yarn stores.
One  right on the corner of Essex and  between Delancey and the block south,  across the street from Seward Park.
Cause we went passed there the other day and I was like, oh, wow.
Bell Yarns was there, Sunray Yarns, and we used to go down and buy yarns.
And- school, I mean, high school was kind of interesting.
I did,  um,  I-  I w- wanted to be an actress, so I  went to-  I auditioned for this school, it was a performing arts school but it was part time.
So it-  it's still there, someone just told me recently it was still there.
RD-SCHOOL-8.
It's in RD-SCHOOL-5.
So I did my academics in the morning at RD-SCHOOL-3.
And then I didn't really kind of mingle with  everyone,  but also by that time, I was younger than everyone.
So with my birthday being in November and having  gone through this accelerated program in junior high school,  I graduated from school when I was sixteen.
So  I was kind of young and having- I think, this is m-  my view, having been exposed to  so much with so few boundaries,  I didn't really get into too much trouble.
Cause I had seen so much and I wasn't really interested, so since nothing was a secret what was there to get into?
So I didn't really get into too much.
I do remember when they built Haven Plaza.
I'm going off on a tangent.
But I do remember when they built Hazen Plaza downtown.
That was considered,  you know  middle  class, middle income.
Ha-ha.
And now I think that it's looked on as if it's no better  or different from the projects, right?
I think so.
Um, you know, it's interesting  i- perspective.
I'm trying to think what else do I remember.
Do you have any other questions?
In seventy-four.
So a lot of the- the unrest that I saw,  like, I was too young to get into like, the flower power- I missed all of that.
I missed all of it.
I was really young, I was like eleven when they were like, goo- well I was wearing go-go boots.
So I didn't have the advantage of getting into any of the st- fun stuff that people were doing b- at that time.
Um, and by the time- at that time, and by the time I by the time  I got into to college, people were pulling back from it.
They had- cause that was seventy-four.
So there was still, you know, a lot of the drugs and stuff, but not the way it was in the sixties and early seventies.
Yeah.
No, I didn't come back until nineteen eighty- oh jee,  eighty-five.
Yeah, d- I was- I- from seventy-four to seventy-eight, I was in college.
From  seventy-eight to eighty-one,   I worked at City Corp  in their credit card division,  in Towson, Maryland.
From eighty-one to eighty-three, I worked for the Federal Reserve Board in DC, under the Reagan administration.
Um, they were d- it's when the Fed had to- was mandated by Congress to start charging,   uh, the banks that they support for their services that they provide.
And then from eighty-three to eighty-four?
Eighty-three to eighty-four, or eighty-four to eighty-five,  I was in California, in Los Angeles.
I lived out there for a year.
Hated it.
And then moved back.
Mm-hm.
No.
I moved-  no.
I wasn't going back to the projects.
I will say this, I hated the projects.
I absolutely hated the concrete, the brick, and even though it was,  at that time, a relatively safe place,  I never l- warmed to it.
I always thought it was scary.
You know, I remember going down like, the stairs and thinking, this is creepy.
You know, I never-  never liked it.
And from our apartment we could see  downtown, the World Trade Center.
It was when they were built in- from my  bedroom.
And from the living room you could see the Empire State Building.
You know, and I just- I always- I remem-  very vivid- vivid memories of standing in my bedroom  and looking  out toward the south,  and across the street at my school,  and wondering what was over that horizon.
And wondering what life would hold for me.
I just absolutely-  and it wasn't-  it wasn't that clear, you know.
I'm articulating it better than I did as a child.
But I just-  I remember having-  trying to envision my life.
That's what it was.
And not being able to see myself past forty,  cause I couldn't imagine  what it would be like.
But in some ways, that was probably a blessing for me, because if I had to imagine my life in the confines of the limitations that I saw,  I would've had a very small dream.
But  by not allowing myself to have a dream, you know, not that I didn't have a dream, but not being able to formulate, it allowed for almost endless possibilites.
So- and that's what happened.
That's kind of my- the way I moved through life, for me, was, um, very much by happenstance.
That I allowed things to happen to me.
Um,  but I must say that I g- I-  I carried the Lower East Side with me wherever.
If you look  wherever I lived, I always chose places  that,  as much as possible, would look like the Lower East Side.
So it'd have to have a diverse community,  it had to be  pretty much in t- in the city.
Um, and it had to have,  you know, a-  I had to have the ability to walk.
So in Atlanta, I lived in- I can't remember the name of that- of that-  area of town now,   but it was always- it became like, the hot spot.
Um,  what was the name of it?
It's off of Piedmont Park.
But that became,  you know, where all the college kids were- were living, and it became the hip place to- the Highlands.
That became the hip place to live.
Um, when I lived in  Baltimore, I lived right downtown on Biddle Street,  Which was  the hip place, it was kind of edgy.
It was the same thing, I mean, it was all- it was very consistent in terms of  where I feel comfortable.
It- when I lived in DC, I lived in, um,  Fort-  oh God, I'm trying to think of the name of the street.
It's right across the bridge from the national  park.
I don't remember.
But it was the same thing, you know, where it's very diverse community kind of on the edge, some people would say a little dangerous,  always.
And then when I, um,  lived- when I moved back,  my  high school teacher,  who had always been like a surrogate mother to me, um, had an apartment up in Harlem.
And she said, you know, I'm going to do my PhD in DC,  my son is living in my two bedroom apartment, go on and move in there.
I mean, I later found out that she was trying to set me up with her son.
But, it t- and we became really good friends- didn't work out, no.
It didn't work out.
But, um,  so I lived there.
And then she had another apartment, as people are wont to do, on  Central Park West, so I lived there for a while.
And I put my name on the waiting list, since- cause you always go back to your neighborhood.
You always go- I think you always go home.
And now with my son, I'm doing the same thing.
I'm- I'm-  I am tickled that,  um, he has the opportunity to see what I saw,  to have the experience that I have.
It's in some ways it's unfortunate cause Stuyvesant Town is not that diverse.
You know, it's mostly white.
And I think that, um,    I think he feels it.
I feel b-  you know, I feel it for him.
And he feels it.
We talk about it.
We've been talking about it since he was four.
You know.
And he's sensitive to it, but  I think he's also lucky.
I don't think- I- i- I don't know.
Um,  the first six years- cause he's six,  the first six years is- is that he's  kind of in a bubble,  you know, in some ways.
He's not- I mean, I was kind of scrappy.
You- I remember, um,  I remembered  as- as much as I say there d- you know d- and I'm kind of backtracking now,  i- I don't know how to- to express this,  in hindsight it was  th-  it wasn't  as bad as it is today, in terms of the guns and the violence.
But it was that it had an edge to it.
You know, and I felt that,  and I think my sister felt that.
And we weren't- I think that we weren't-  we were part of the community, but we weren't part of the community.
You know, a lot of the people that I grew with, I see them now, I say hi, but  we were never close, we were never friends.
I was always more school- bound to school than I was to the projects.
But at the same time I was very much bound to the neighborhood.
I loved the neighborhood.
So my son, I don't- I think is more bound to the neighborhood, to the community, you know.
W- we interact more, um,  and not that I didn't, but I think that it's different.
I'm trying to figure out how.
I think that  what he's seeing is a more affluent  neighborhood outside of Stuyvesant Town.
You know, there are million dollar co-ops down there.
Very much so.
You know, um,  it is- it is becoming less diverse,  but that-  and it had become less diverse, because,  um,  the Jews, the Italians, the Poles, moved out of the projects.
You know, and it became mostly black and Hispanic, right.
The P- uh, the Poles moved, and the Eastern Europeans  moved out of the Lower East Side.
There are still  a group.
But not, you know,  they've either moved down to and are still on Grand Street- but even that's changing.
A lot of people are dying off, their children are not holding on to those apartments, um, or they're moving.
A lot of people move to Florida.
You know, a lot of people got their Archie Bunker and are k- in Queens.
Um, so  I think that- so it became,  especially on the northern part of the Lower East Side  black and Hispanic and lots of drugs.
So it became very, um,   um,  i- it became  less diverse.
It was very diverse when I was growing, it became less diverse, and then now it's- the- the group is changing.
Right?
So it's not,  in this case,  you know, it's- i-  people are being displaced, yeah.
Um,  the neighorhood is- is changing.
I-  in some ways it's k- I think that  it's a bigger question-  it's- it's more- that's a big question.
And it's interesting because in this, where we're sitting now,   um, the people in this side is-  they're apart of community development.
We deal with a lot of community groups.
And we have these discussions all the time.
It's a very difficult question because  on the one side, there's an absolute  need for affordable housing.
Um,  people deserve-  I mean, this-  for me,  personally,  I would- I- I-  I saw this coming a long time ago and I was disheartened  when- when, um, chains  started coming into the city.
You know, Gaps and to me this is all part of that movement.
And New York, it's losing, or has lost, its uniqueness.
In terms of having individual stores and- and real communities.
At the same time, is it better to have better to have drug-infested neighborhoods?
It's like there's no middle ground.
And I don't- how do you find that.
That's the  the question.
So yeah.
D-  it's sad and I think that we need to find middle ground.
I don't know how you do that.
I really don't know how you answer that question.