Big Shot.
RD-NAME-4 Um.
I was born in Brooklyn, New York.
Basically.
And  I lost a brother in nineteen seventy-nine  due to a fire.
A house fire.
And we reloaded- we relocated  to the Lower East Side of Manhattan in nineteen seventy-nine.
August sixth, nineteen seventy-nine, a matter of fact.
I was nine years old.
Yes.
Yes.
We was born- uh- well I was born in Bed-Stuy.
Gates and Stuyvesant.
And.
It was a family of eleven.
And me,  me and  ten more siblings.
And.
Um.
All by the same moms  and  my father and a step pops.
But, it was definitely.
Yeah.
Six by one man five by another.
Definitely.
It is.
It is.
Um.
Since my  the passing of my brother, RD-NAME-3, I have one younger than me, then me.
So, I'm at the the.
Yes.
Right before the bottom.
Nine years.
It was, it was.
It was like  to me, I thought it was kind of like  different.
Cause it was like  in the seventies, it was like black on black.
Like.
I didn't see no Not to many Spanish,  Caucasians.
It was more  eighty-nine percent  dominate Black.
At that time.
And Until I made that move to the Lower East Side.
Spanish  Caucasians, Asians, I saw some of everything once I touched the lower part of Manhattan.
And  he-  that's where my life begin.
Yes.
Um, I remember playing freeze tag, Um.
K- Yeah.
Block parties, like they blocked the blocks off, have some block parties.
Music,  I remember um,    Kick- um, kick ba- uh  kickball, dodgeball.
Yeah, we definitely had a lot of activities going on and then,  coming from a household of  ten more siblings  uh i-  of course we played tag and-  and everything else amongst each other.
So.
It was eight boys, three girls.
Definitely.
Um.
Not really cause they was like  Older than a l- a couple of boys and.
And we was pretty well grounded, like we know right from wrong and  things like that.
But, we always have um.
Can uh.
How you call it?
Voice our opinion, but.
Know.
It is what it is at the end of the day.
Well, uh.
My mom, she was um.
In the seventies, she was in charge of like  you know, the people would come and take care of the elderly, the home attendants.
She, she was something like that.
But she had a good position.
And my father was doing con- some  construction  up- work.
Like, I remember him leave and come back.
Like every six days and construction work every four or five days and things like that.
And then  all the older kids have jobs.
And-  and things like that.
So everybody played the part.
Basically.
We was living kind of ghetto fabulous in the seventies, like like wow.
Like I remember having everything.
I- I don't remember a bad moment.
So, it's like wow.
Serious.
Yeah.
Uh- Um, I- Yeah.
Um.
Basically it was a summer night.
I think it was in July.
In- matter of fact, it was on my, uh,  on one of the twin's birthday.
Yes.
I have a  I have twin brother and sister named RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-3.
And it was July  nineteenth.
It was uh, uh, uh, uh, a  pipe-  a pipe bomb.
They threw in through the window.
A homemade pipe bomb and.
Uh.
We never found out the main source behind it and all that and what was the reason.
And.
But.
Um.
Definitely, we all was in there  and we all made it out except for RD-NAME-3.
And.
Uh.
It was just tragic.
Seven.
He was seven, I was nine.
And  I'll never forget that day.
Yeah.
That's the re- that was the main reason we decided to leave because it was a big fire and  by having so many siblings,  it was hard to place us like somewhere else and my moms just made a move to make a difference.
Like um.
Let's try Manhattan and the next thing you know, they had this  i- k- it's closed off now.
It was six bedrooms,  two bathrooms here.
But they just.
Yeah.
They just closed it off last week.
We had it over thirty years like that and.
Um.
The-  the ten siblings got down to like  one  and everything else, so everybody just relocated.
And they and.
Uh.
Exactly.
For x amount of rent.
You know.
And.
Yes.
The end of the seventies.
Growing up in the seventies?
Uh.
It was very different.
Like  I didn't know what was a Spanish person until I got here.
Like.
Since this was mostly dominated by  Puerto Ricans and Dominicans at that point.
When I got here, I was just like  really impressed with the  the different color of race.
The long hair.
The Spanish.
It was like, it was a whole nother world for me.
Like w- like wow.
And  of course, RD-NAME-2 adapt  quickly.
Got into the mix, made a lot of friends, and never stopped since there.
Yes, they are.
They definitely.
I got.
I got all kind of friends.
All- all different backgrounds and this this ridiculous.
Well.
It was s- sort of like that for a little while that I remember, like  I remember the Spanish parents didn't want the blacks in they house at one point.
And not- and it was not even like  them being  naive to the situation of prejudice- cy.
It's just like  I guess that's how it was at that point it was like  if I didn't know what a Puerto Rican was in seventy- seventy-nine and stuff like that and out here it was nothing but Puerto Ricans.
So, Puerto Ricans and things like that.
So.
to have a- uh, uh,  black  guy uh, uh, uh Puerto Rican come to the households at that time, know what I'm saying, you gotta really really be like open minded to the whole  situation and some people wasn't they didn't know too much English at that time.
So, they really didn't know  it's okay to have  a black person inside the same household as a Spanish person and things like that.
But that faded, that faded kind of quickly.
I'd say.
It faded kind of quickly cause  it was nothing they could do.
Everybody knew each other and  if from- from s-  from junior high school, uh from  hi- public school to junior high school, it's like we all in the same classes, we all see each other and and then, you in the project.
Got eleven floors, a hundred.
You got nine apartments on each floor, so you got a hundred and ten apartments in the building.
Of course, we gonna know somebody, and somebody gonna invite you over to this person house and things like that.
So.
So it benefited.
Yeah.
It benefited in a way.
Forever.
Yeah.
For at least almost twenty-nine, thirty years.
Yeah.
Um.
Yes.
Um.
I played in back of the building, they call the, um,  The Wood P-  The Wood Park.
Yeah, and it was a lot of wooden things, that's why and and  that's where I did all my growing up, basically with all my friends I used to hang out with like, running across the uh, the wood things this,  the monkey bars, the .
Yeah.
It's definitely a playground.
And the only reason they call it like the Wood Park, it's this  uh, wooden bridge would take you from one side of the playground to the other side, like the monkey bars into the  the swings probably or something like that.
Yeah.
It was back there.
It been around forever, but they just did a little touch up and all that.
Definitely.
Um.
I explored the neighborhood, well back in seventy-nine,  besides playing in the playground,  I had the biggest bi- ha- uh, apartment i- in the building.
So, it was like this was like a playground for the kids in the building and everything else like hide-and-go-seek.
It's like, it was six bedrooms, two bathrooms, a kitchen and a living room.
So in a se- in the late seventies, early eighties, that's like a mansion.
And I remember we used to play all kind of games up in here.
S- So, it was like, it was okay.
Hide and seek.
Um.
Freeze tag.
Um.
This um, how you call it?
Twister.
I remember playing twister.
Skel- Yeah.
And skelzies in the house because it was so spacious.
A- And if you didn't come from a family of wealth  in the late seventies,  ear- early eighties, a big apartment  you definitely gonna have room.
And, it was a lot of space, and we just did a lot of different things growing up in here.
Uh, I went to  RD-SCHOOL-6 Uh, it's right across the street from my building.
It's right, f- the address is RD-ADDRESS-8 And  that was my choice of  public school for-  for men in the community, they put you in your community public school, and.
And my fourth grade teacher was Ms.
RD-NAME-2, I'll never forget this lady and she was the sweetest lady.
Like  her and her two kids.
Like.
I'll never forget them, like they used to always come every Friday and bring cookies and things like that.
And  that's like in seventy-nine.
It was a good teacher out there, I'll never forget  who- who cared.
R- really were.
Really.
Um.
I was more  flamboyish  than anything.
Um.
Me and school really didn't cut it.
Um.
As we keep talking, you definitely gonna find out some things about me like, one of the things, I had a, um  a reading problem.
And  By having a reading problem and being popular,  in the late seventies, early eighty it's always gonna, um, crash.
They don't go hand in hand.
And  I chose  to be popular over  knowledge.
And by me choosing that,  it- it- it hurted me  in the long run.
So, it's like, I regret a lot of things from back then to now.
Um.
I got pushed through school all my life.
In the seventies and eighties, it was all about  attendance.
You show up, and you're gonna pass.
That was the motto and that's what I remember all my life.
We'd show up  and pass.
And of course, I showed up, cause I'm popular, I always had money, dressed good, know everybody.
And  just show up to get passed.
and that's what I did.
Uh.
I was um, book smart and all that,  not- it wasn't coming from school.
And uh, I self taught myself different ways.
Like, I became more street smart than school smart.
Um.
I did make it to high school.
I still got pushed all the way to  the tenth grade.
I went to one of the best high schools in New York City.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-SCHOOL-7.
It's located on RD-ADDRESS-3 between RD-ADDRESS-3 Avenue.
Across the street from um  Park West  High School.
And in eighty-five,  you had to have a eighty-five a-  average to get into that school.
Something I did not have.
But,  if you get a ninety-eight percent  attendance,  at that point, you was going somewhere.
And that's how I wind up going to RD-SCHOOL-7 And.
Um.
Again, it's all about  the popularity.
Um.
One of my best friends used to go there and  it's all about um  the dressing.
Oh, again, it came down to the dress and the money always played a rolled in my life, I always had it.
And two, I met a park called Hell's Kitchen.
On Fourty-eighth Street and Tenth Avenue.
And  once you got-  once I got introduced to Hell Kitchen in nineteen eighty-eight, you could forget about it.
It was three dollar crack viles.
And even if you was making fifty cent a crack vile, in eighty-six, eighty-seven, you still coming home with fifty cent PC, you still coming home with close to four, five hundred dollars a night.
So, it was hard to pass up.
And I chose to  start dipping and dabbing into that and  I wasn't getting no knowledge out of school it was more uh, more I'm being embarrassed a- uh, not- not wanting to get embarrassed in front of  nobody.
Than anything else.
So, it was.
Yeah.
I.
Um.
I was in Hell Kitchen for like  probably a year or so.
I didn't make a career of Hell Kitchen, I wi- I go- I always get in and get out quickly.
And  I just started doing f- doing for my self after that.
Um.
I was making ends meet by  hustling.
And  I'm a middle.
When I say I'm a middle man, I'm a middle man for uh,  half the world.
I know I know half the world.
And  order to be a middle man, you'll- you'll  credi- your street credibility  hafta be  up to par.
It gotta- you gotta have a um,  it's bigger than a credit-  a credit score.
A twenty-four hundred.
It's like your- your- ks- it's all you- a- all a man have in the street is his word and his balls.
Excuse my French.
And you can't break them for nothing.
And that's why I'm still t- today  two thousand eight, I'm still cons-  consider myself  very wa-  very well connected  in- in the communities.
Um.
I.
I have my people person skills.
And my word,  meaning  I never never did nobody dirty.
Like,  I'd'a hafta  jump-  m- m- me, uh another person  would never have to jump one person.
I always like  fight  one-on-one.
No- no jumping.
If you can beat this person, fight this person.
You don't gotta beat 'em up with a stick, bat, things like that, um.
I never got caught hustling or selling drugs  and rolled over and been like, it wasn't me, it was the next person.
It's about holding your water.
It's sort of like a Bounty Towel.
When they pour the water in, it's supposed to hold.
And sort of like a person.
You sposta hold your water without leaking it.
And.
It's just things like that and  it's all about the who's and the what's, and who's who, and what's what, and.
By you knowing who's who and what's what,  without letting the next people who  supposed to been who who and this and that, knowing about the next person.
It's- it's- it's a lot of things about the streets, like  what make you that  street credibility.
To give you that k- street credibility record.
Um.
I did  one or two pictures of modeling back in the day for-  for um,  some designer.
They saw me and  I made the front  co- me- I made uh,  Fader  It came out in Fader Magazine with Snoop Dogg on the front cover, so.
I was kind of excited cause that's it went everywhere.
So.
And again, my  face expression,  since birth  is always the same.
And that's how everybody in the world  still remember me.
And when I say everybody in the world, like I grew up with a LL Cool ki-  a LLCool J.
a Busta Rhymes, a Audio Two,  a Kid 'n Play.
I mean, I was in the club scene since nineteen eighty-three.
That's thirteen years old, I made my debut at the world.
down the block on Houston Street.
Um.
Night clubbing at thirteen years old.
And.
Uh.
I- I- I started clubbing at thirteen, and  we sposta been twenty  twenty-one still.
And in eighty-three, uh, I done did it all.
Uh.
Um.
I pretty much never got in no  tough situations, because one,  uh- u- u- uh, to be  a hundred and thirty-seven pounds,  all your life,  and fighting guys  two hundred and ten,  six feet, and making a- a- a- a re-  a- a- r- a reputation for yourself, like  like he ain't gonna run.
He gonna fight regardless, son.
He don't care how big or small you are.
That helps your  you skreet credibility also.
E- It's not me always staying to fight.
Every fight I got into,  at a hundred and thirty, hundred thirty-seven pounds,  I wound up fighting  the ring leader of the next crew,  or the biggest one out of the crew.
Just cause I was the oldest.
I  being the-  the oldest  and the littlest,  I always step to the plate.
And fighting the biggest guys.
And  after fighting them.
Um.
A,  I do what I have to do with them, and  shake hands, never jump 'em  after the fight is over.
It's never, it never could t-  escalated to I'm gonna get my guns.
Uh.
Anything else like that, cause, like I said, I'm a people person.
I knew half the world.
And when I did have a fight,  it was for a reason.
And  everybody I fought was somebody in the streets, somebody who  was somebody.
Like either they had they own drugs, uh, they was big in this  situation and  by me fighting them, made their littler people  look at me different.
Like, wow.
That's Big Shot, like he fought them.
He had a fight was RD-NAME-2.
And RD-NAME-2 sposta been  as we speak now, RD-NAME-2 is one of the biggest  RD-NAME-1 in- in- in the jail system as we speak today, like he's Puerto Rican, and he got  thousand of kids under his title.
And I had- that's the last.
Um.
He was in this neighborhood, growing up in the Avenue D.
And he got a asshole full of time right now.
I think he's never gonna touch  the streets again in his life.
And, if I'm thirty-eight,  MK gotta be thirty-seven, thirty-eight also.
And, it's kind of sad.
But, um.
That's.
Um.
I spent time in jail,  but the time I spent was  it's called going through the system.
And that's only twenty-four to seventy-two hours, tops.
And that come from, my M-O is smoking marijuana.
Like,  like,  today is um,  October thirtieth two thousand eight.
And right before I met you, some under-covers pulled me over.
Now, if they knew me- if they knew me for all my life, and knew what I'm capable of doing,  eight out of ten,  I had  possession of marijuana on me.
And I definitely did.
But, it's just how you talk and give 'em they respect and just basically look 'em in the eye and just talk to 'em, like, you don't have no right  just to run up on me like that.
They could pat me down, but  again, the famous line they always use, you fit theirs-  the prescription  of a black man.
Man, listen.
Every black man fit the prescription of a black man.
And  But, that's what it is man.
Um.
What I do now with my time is  I'm a father to two, um, two children.
Um.
My oldest is fourteen.
Yes.
These is my daughters.
Both girls.
Um.
One is.
So sorry.
The oldest one name is RD-NAME-2, she's fourteen.
She go to RD-SCHOOL-6 on RD-ADDRESS-8, I believe.
Straight A student.
And the second one name is RD-NAME-3, she's fifteen months.
And she's.
And that's what I do with my time.
I'm definitely a father to my t- my- my kids .
Um.
They have separate moms.
I live w- I live with the baby girl moms as we speak.
And I got a step-son named Dylan.
And  God blessed me with the- with these kids.
And with the knowledge they both have, uh.
And  besides that, um,  I'm gonna reach over here for one second.
Just so s- to show you something.
Kay.
I'm so sorry.
I kno w So, basically, what I do with my time now,  um, I was working in a law firm.
My first real job I had.
The last four years, the professor named RD-NAME-4 brother, is- was my boss, RD-NAME-3 at RD-WORK-5, Murphy and .
And I just got outsourced,  so basically, I just focus more  on my clothes.
That's my logo.
Um.
I was in the mail room.
I was working in the mail room.
Um.
That's my, um,  that's my logo.
These is my hats, I abouta send out to get done.
They be ready in three weeks.
L-E-S the Sixth Borough.
It's only five boroughs, the reason why I came up with that concept because it's always a question behind it.
Everybody always aks, ain't this five boroughs?
And it is five boroughs, but we a borough within a borough.
And.
Cause we so different down here, we so unique.
And  by saying we unique, it's like  we- we have a culture of our own.
Like, our dress style and  how we just love our borough so much.
And how we represent it from the jail cells to the skreet cells and.
And then you have somebody like a RD-NAME-2, who was never a  a- a- a king pin as a drug dealer, but always gave back to the community by investing into  doing murals,  um,  m- um, designing clothes.
Everything you see from RD-NAME-2 is- everything got LES in it.
Like,  my- my clothes is called L-E- e- my company is called L-E-S the Sixth Borough.
And my logo is designed with L-E-S the Sixth Borough on it.
I have a- a- a book coming out  in January,  January, February, the latest.
And it's called Sleeping in the Rat Hole.
It's a low- it's a Alphabet City, L-E-S, the Sixth Borough,  state and federal inmates stand up  and  it's just  I don't forget  the people who was locked up.
Cause no matter what  everybody don't come from a happy home.
And they don't- nobody wanna be in that place.
That place is terrible.
But, people make  the wrong decisions, and I'm just letting them know, I feel your pain.
I didn't do no ten days, I didn't do ten years, but I feel your pain.
And.
Uh, uh- I lost a lot of good friends to the system, and I have a older brother named RD-NAME-3, who was locked up since nineteen eighty-one.
Can you imagine that?
He spend- he got locked up when he was seventeen  and a half.
So,  since nineteen eighty-one,  all the way to now, he's fighting his freedom still, and.
Still fighting for his freedom.
His sentence was seventeen years to life, meaning  once they add the life on back of the seventeen years, they can hold you  until your kids  future kids or whatever become  uh, a parole- a parole officer or something.
Like it's just insane.
Murder.
Murder.
And.
But, um.
I think he in  Green Haven right now, I ain't sure.
It's upstate.
Upstate New York.
Yeah.
Nah, he's um, he done went to  you can imagine.
Twenty something years, he He- he- he traveled already, and  know, he regret everything now.
He's very smart, he's a handy man, but he didn't use the tools he had  when he was out.
And Things like that.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, when I first hit here, um,  I consider myself part of the squatters who was fighting in Thomson Square Park.
And  that's why, um,  I love my community so much, because  it was a struggle for everybody who been down here  as long as I've been down here.
And to see that change  happen rapidly,  it's a shame.
Cause right now, it's like  you got  everybody flocking in from all parts of the world to this Lower East Side,  and think it was like this all his life,  but they- little do they know,  if you can read the first sentence in my-  my paragraphs.
And you tell me what you we-  do it make sense or not.
Well.
It was supposed to be um,  I talked about  before  the Lower East Side had fancy restaurants and art galleries.
I'm talking about bef-   when it was nothing but  a hole in the wall, save the robots,  a- a- and MK's and things like that.
It was none of this none of this glamorous- we- what it is now-  sugar coated.
So, it's- it's sad, no?
And right now.
I- I- Yeah, i- it's serious.
I- I wish I can make it to the top off of my success to try to buy any and everything what's buyable.
Just to keep the community how it used to be for somebody who been in it.
And that the- that's the only thing I want in life.
I wanna become successful  to try to buy up  every lot  or every  open property what's out there on the market on the Lower East Side.
Just to try to maintain  the old school  and how it was.
Um.
Uh.
What's not here now is um,  the squatters.
The real people.
Um.
The people who was a part of the community, the mom and pop stores.
Carvel, when- was on Avenue D  and Houston Street,  um, Machine Gun Funks,  and all these restaurants like, that's  everywhere you go, like  Avenue C,  it's like  classy.
And Avenue B, it's like  it's unbelievable.
Like wow.
Like, look at this place, and you got all these people coming in,  and looking at a RD-NAME-3  like,  you don't belong here.
Like, I don't belong here?
And  I've been here before you even thought about this place.
But,  it come back down to the dollar.
They got the dollar, they-  they got- they can afford their apartments, and  they- they um.
How you call it?
They surround they self with people just like them.
So, the  you got the people who been here all our lives  and even you got the biggest drug dealers in the world,  who made them millions of dollars and didn't know what to do with it.
A, they don't have it no more cause they got hooked up on they own product.
B,  um, they locked up.
C, they either dead.
So, it's like they never invested back into the community to keep it for the community.
Only, you had a RD-NAME-2,  who took a chance and tried to come up with a-  a concept,  tryna come out with a book.
And this is coming from me.
Not-  not no  I made millions, I made a hundred thousand.
This is somebody who had a couple of dollars,  bought some hats, came up with a logo,  also, um  I put my first record out  back in nineteen ninety-four.
It's called The Lower and executives to- executive produced by Big Shot,  my group is there.
And, I- I- I try to do a lot of different things for the community cause  I knew how the community was gonna change.
But, my biggest fear was  reading.
I never had the knowledge  to go get them grants.
The government grants  and to sit in school for X amount of hours to-  to enlighten my-  my education better to get funded.
So, that hurted me in that- in that- in that way.
But, everything else is just like  it is what it is.
Uh.
What's so unique about the Lower East Side,  is the people down here.
The culture, our culture, blacks, Puerto Ricans and Dominicans,  even we got some Asians and  and some um, Caucasians who been here  since  the seventies and everything else.
But, what make us so different we can be in- in Alasta- Alaska  and see one more  and you can feel the bond  still from Lower East Side.
Like, all these people  was in federal and state  jail.
They still like,  it's snil like a- you take snow,  and you pat it together to make a snowball.
They still like that til today, like when you ge- when they get locked up,  they can be upstate, they can be in Massachusetts, they can be wherever.
But, once they see each other, It's still there.
Like, yo!
L-E-S!
And  That's how it is, we stick together.
Everywhere we go, i- like, it's unbelievable.
Like, I live uptown now.
But,  I still see people from downtown and  You can't take that L-E-S away from us, no matter what.
Yes.
I live uptown now.
Yes.
Yes.
RD-ADDRESS-5  Central- right across the  from Central Park.
It's n- It's not like the Lower East Side?
I see more  black on black  than mixed.
And it's-  i- i- it's like  when I can leave my mother house,  on ho- on Lower East Side in Houston Street, I come out the building,  or, once I get in a elevator,  I might see  a Arabic,  a Puerto Rican, and a black person in a elevator.
When I leave the ho- when I leave the apartment,  uptown,  I open the elevator,  It's definitely three people up there, but we all the same nationality.
Like, that's one thing, where like When I come outside, And don't see all them different  um, um,  grou- um, race, it's like wow.
It- I love that mix.
And  It's like wow.
I just need to get-  get what I gotta do in life, to come back down here and try to like stay here forever.
Cause this is my dream.
Um.
It's here.
Um.
My mom still have it.
And all that  but um.
Um.
She live here with my nephew.
But, as- as we both know,  moms is seventy-one young.
She's getting up in age and basically, I just tryna get it together to see, can I try to buy this.
Like yeah, if I was still on mine- If I was still on a lease, it'd go down to me.
But, my nephew got it right now, so it's still gonna be in the family regardless and things like that.
But,  that's how it really works and things like that.
Um.
What I don't like about the Lower East Side?
I'm not a  uh- I- I consider myself, I like everything.
Like,  nothing really bothers me.
Like  everything happens for a reason.
So, if it's something negative down here, if  or like,  I ain't even mad at the fancy restaurants and the art galleries  or the people who's flocking in.
I ain't mad at them.
Know what I'm saying.
Cause it's- it's in these days and times, if you can  you gotta get in when you fit in.
And if you got the dollar,  to afford that apartment and all that, I- I respect that.
And for  for the drug dealers who was raised and brought up on the Lower East Side and all that,  maybe we shoulda been a little more smarter to invest into what we had.
And everything else instead of looking at it like we losing this and losing that.
So, it's like um.
To each his own.
I- I- wish everybody the best and my goal in life, like I said,  I tryna be that entrepreneur what and to make  what I can make  just to try to buy  anything what's open.
I don't care what it is.
Anything what has got a for sale sign, and I got that money, I'll try to buy it.
Cause I know how to make it back  into the seventies and eighties.
Definitely.
Um.
B- to be a part of it to be a part of it.
To um, to go outside as a black man,  and be like  como-esta abuela?
To a Spanish grandmother, like, how you doing, or how you doing grandma, but in Spanish.
And to get that bond and that love back from that same Spanish woman who look at you and raise you also by going to her house with her kids and eating that same Puerto Rican  and Black food that we did.
Like, for holidays, like we got the building,  a hundred and ten apartments.
And I live on the top floor, the eleventh floor, so I work my way down  with my Kool-Aid, my- my soul food,  And I'm going to the tenth floor to get some coquito and some Spanish food.
You know, I'm going to the Dominicans to get the flan.
And It's just- it's a- this a beautiful thing.
Definitely.
Definitely, and that's And that's what I'm missing cause you missing more of the  I've been here  over X amount of years to  now you see  like, wow.
This person look like they don't belong here.
I-  Yeah.
That happening  oh no- when I s- when I say the Sixth Borough, Lower East Side, that's happening from Brooklyn Bridge, all the way to  Fourteenth Street and Third Avenue  and then out.
Yes.
Yes.
From Smith Projects, that's starting at Brooklyn Bridge all the way to Jackson and FDR Drive, to Fourteenth Street, FDR Drive from  east  all the way to Third Avenue.
From Third Avenue, all the way back down to Bowery and Houston.
And then, it go farther than that, cause it still gotta go That's- That's the Sixth Borough in my eyes.
Anything  from Houston Street,  walking distance,  thirty to forty minute walking distance is still considered the Sixth Borough.
How we used to get up and walk to the World Trade Center, a thirty to forty-five minute walks.
Top.
That's the- that considered the sixth borough, cause  all  within a walk.
Yeah.
Alphabet City.
It's-  It's no separation cause  right now,  we on north of Houston Street, but I still represent south  of Houston Street.
And that's still considered  all these projects, that bridge, the Manhattan Bridge, Brooklyn Bridge, all that is considered  the Sixth Borough, Lower East Side, still.
And,  the only separation we getting is from the quote.
Everybody's getting more educated and  flocking in  and they tryna say, oh this is  this is south of Houston Street, it's really different from North of Houston.
Lo-ho is really for me, it's no-ho.
Cause we ain't going for that.
Like, nah.
This is still the Lower East Side.
And  no matter what,  I feel my company  It's gonna take off a little bit faster than everybody else's because we got the whole Lower East Side.
Excuse me, one second.