Okay.
My name is RD-NAME-4.
Yes.
How you doing?
Kay.
I was born November eleventh, nineteen eighty-four  at RD-ADDRESS-5 in Brooklyn, New York.
Um, so I'm originally a Brooklynite.
I lived in Brooklyn up until I was  three or four years old, then I moved to this apartment on RD-ADDRESS-, now I'm in the s- Yeah, same exact I- I been living here for going on twenty-one, twenty-two years now.
Yeah, so.
Okay.
Well my grandmother was from down south and, you know, she wound up moving, I believe  South Carolina and the migrated up to B-  and up to New York, Brooklyn.
She, you know, got married, had, you know, my m-  my mother and my other aunts and uncles.
And so our- our family was, um, you know, that's where our family,  you know, was  was breeded at, I guess.
And w- that's where we  where- you know, that's where we established ourselves, .
Um, well- well they- they moved around B- different parts of Brooklyn, but w- you know,  since then I was born, we  lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
And now we're s- that's where the heard of our family's at, at the Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
Yep, definitely.
Well, it was a- it was a pretty bad neighborhood, um, at the time.
And, you know, my mother- yep.
And my mother wanted to-  my mother and my eldest brother,  they, um, they wanted to,  you know, move.
I was- I was a kid.
Um, I was like one or two years old.
My sister was a- , you know,  six months old.
And it was like, you know, we wanted to kind of g- get a change of scenery, a better- a better neighborhood and this action-  Lower East Side used to be, you know, b- was kind of like a abandoned area.
They had  whole bunch of abandoned buildings and squatters and it was a, you know, huge drug problem.
But then NYCHA, they actually, you know,  made this development Lower East Side too.
Um, and it opened up in nineteen eighty-eight.
And so,  you know, we were one of the first families that moved into this development.
Yes we were.
And so, um, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, yeah.
And everybody pretty much here knows each other for the most part.
I mean- I mean, the great thing is we have a dead end block which has a school there, so it's like, you know,  y- it's only- pretty much one way you come in and one way you can come out, which makes,  you know, um,  I mean, which makes the community pretty much more- that much more closer, cause we've- Exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Is a- well do you- yes it is.
Yes it is.
So I mean, I- I- I had so many great times growing up here, man.
Um, Yeah.
I w- I was actually talking to one of my- one of my good friends,  um, well actually a childhood friend who,  you know, a couple weeks ago.
And he just, you know, we was talking about like, just  we used to play kickball in the backyard, and  you know, play all  m- different- make up games, and you know, play all different types of  you know, espionage, you know, manhunt games we used to have over there.
And it was like, wow.
Uh, we played, um, I was very competitive so  any type of sport.
We played basketball or whatever, then we-  we would play a game called, um,  manhunt,  where- you played man- did you play manhunt?
So manhunt, what we would do, we used to, um, you either do a team,  two teams, or you could do it every man for themself.
And one person would, um, you know, w- one person would  be the person that's it.
And you have to like,  you'll give like two- a minute or- a minute or so to just  go hide anywhere you want,  you know, on the block.
Yeah, the whole block.
The whole block thing.
And-   see that was- that was a restriction, you couldn't hide in the buildings, um, you couldn't hide in the apartments.
So you pretty much had to find, you know, different areas around  the, um, the block to hide at.
Um, well I would, you know, you'd be surprised- probably have- but we have a big backyard back there.
And we don't have- we have a back on our other side too, as well.
So we'll hide there, we'll hide in the school yard,  you know.
We'll just find different places to hide at.
And, you know, if you got caught the f- oh no, if you got caught then you would have to join,  um,  that- that person after they find everybody else  on, um, everybody else was hiding.
And-  yeah.
Oh then- exactly.
But if it w- but if it was a team though, that's the thing, if it was individual then I would have to- say if you're the o- one that was it.
And, um, we had a group of people.
If you caught me,  um, I would have to help you find everybody else.
Exactly.
And if it was a team though,  um, you would catch me and I would just be out for the rest- you know, there was like a-  a prisoner's thing, where I would have to stay there and, you know, until- exactly.
But  the catch is, on certain occasions  if, um,  if one person from  like, say if I'm on the opposing team then I'm, you know,  one of my teammates got caught,  um,  I can, you know if I can sneak-  sneak to the base where, you know, where my-  my- my teammates is at  and tag  them before,  you know, the other team is able to notice me  then they'll be set free, so.
Yes.
Exactly.
Yeah.
This is like, you know, espionage one-on-one.
Yes.
Um, not- a- well-  well it's pretty much the same front door key.
The one-  we have a same front door key to get in, so.
Um, but then i- if not, you knew friends from, you know, people from the other side so y- you know, you could always get in, or- you'll climb the gate.
You can do something to get to the other side of the backyard, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, e- exactly.
It's right up the block.
Yeah, and they backyard is like, two times as big as ours.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a huge backyard.
Huge.
And they have a basketball court back there as well.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Um,  well I didn't- I played-  played in a park on- Tompkins Square Park over there, did over there.
Um, I would play, um,  the crazy thing when we were young,  you know, after a certain time when-  you know, when-  when it's- got dark, you know m- you- you know, our parents would never let us go off the block.
So we used to have the garbage can there  and we used to play basketball in the garbage can.
And then at- at one point we had, um,  a basketball court  at the end of the block, you know, we would- had a- have a portable one, so we used to play all hours of the night.
Until the neighbors start complaining, we had to take it away but.
You know, growing up in this area there was always, you know, different- different, you know,  m- you know, recreation-  parks and recreations that you can go to, so.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Well yeah, for the most part.
I mean, there's, um, we still got a a lot of traffic coming in, you know, um,  a lot of people didn't know it was a dead end block, or- or whatever the case is.
So it's, I mean, for the most part it still wasn't- it wasn't as bad as some of the main streets.
In regards to the through traffic that they got.
Mm-hm.
Go to- yep.
And then- then- when you- when you're in school you have, um, you know, you meet f- you- y- you make friendships with people from different parts of the neighborhood, so.
I mean, you will go, you know, sometimes you go to their area and hang out and play sports or whatever the case was.
I have three.
I have- I have, um, two older brothers and I have a younger sister.
So I'm-  Um, no actually my- my eldest brother just came back, he just moved back with us.
Um,  my eldest- He was, um, he was upstate.
He was upstate, so, um.
And I have, um, another brother who's married, and he's-  you know, his wife and his daughter lives out in Brooklyn.
And, um, you know, then there's me and my sister here.
Yeah, I knew my father.
My father actually passed away three years ago to lung cancer.
so.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So, um,  I knew that-  he was actually, um, yeah.
He was my father.
Yeah.
But it's-  it's something that, um- yes he did.
Yes he did, and my mother was married.
so.
It's, um,  but, you know, it- it's- it's something that I- I've made peace with it, you know, a while ago, so.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yes.
My mother used to actually work in the World Trade Center.
She- yeah.
She worked in the World Trade Center in the, um, in the l-  in the eighties and early nineties.
And I want- I used to be sick,  used to be very sick.
And so she had to quit her job  for us to go on welfare.
Um, so she would be able to take care of me.
And my father- I had asthma.
I had asthma and I had immune deficiency,  um,  and- what else?
Yeah.
When I was like- yeah.
Yeah, it's- it's all- I'm- I'm- I'm a lot better now, though.
Well it's- it's a- yeah that's-  my brother- my- my second eldest brother had asthma.
And, um, I believe it's- I'm-  I'm not- I'm not specfic- um, I'm not sure in regards to how specific it is when it comes down to can it be passed down.
But, you know, but, um,  I had it.
And my mother actually has asthma now.
And that's something that she developed-  she-  she developed, um, a couple of years ago.
Possibly.
I- I- you know what, I don't think- cause I- when I got it, I was about three or four years old and I wasn't really exposed to, um, well at least from my knowledge, that I wasn't really exposed to- um,  I think it- it could've been some- I'm not even sure.
But, um, one, I wound up having asthma.
And I had, um,  an immune deficiency, and a-  and so, um, me-  she used to be a computer operator, so.
Mm-hm.
And my father was a- a- a master locksmith, so.
Um, no actually in Brooklyn.
In Brooklyn.
So, um, yeah that's what they did and- Well that's- that's the thing, it- it was i-  it was pretty difficult at times, but you know,  I, you know, I always wanted- always wanted to feel like I was  at- just like everybody else.
You know, and sometimes of course my medical conditions limited me from- from being able to enjoy  some of the activities a lot of, you know-  you know, a lot of my friends and you know, were able to do.
And-   Yeah.
I- I- that was- I was definitely an- that was a necessity, always had that.
You know, I have my pump with me, you know, everywhere I went because it was, um, I mean there was no telling when I was able to catch a asthma attack.
And then-  and I used to be in and out of the hospital a lot, so it was something that I definitely had to- yeah.
Um, it would- Not every- not necessarily every day, but um,  it would- it would definitely be-  it was real consistent enough where I missed a lot of school.
And, yeah I missed a lot of school.
And actually the doctors so- once told my mother that I wouldn't-  I wouldn't live to see past the age of twelve.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Yep.
But, um- I'm gonna be twenty-five in November, so.
It's definitely a blessing, yes.
Y- yeah.
Well it's not- it wasn't just necessarily the a-  asthma was a, uh, a major part of it, but it was the f- simple fact that, you know,  immune deficiency you have a- a very, very low, um,  immune system, where I wasn't able to fight off a lot of-  yeah.
And so the asthma would be the gateway.
Where, you know,  I'll get the respiratory, you know,  respiratory- my respiratory- my breathing would be heavy and I'll, you know, I'll get sick from that.
But then I'll be exposed to so many other different types of,  um, germs and all that because my  immune system was having a hard time fighting off just the asthma.
So  I was always, um, acceptable of getting,  you know-  you know, catching a cold or some type of pneumonia.
And a lot of the- and a lot of the times I would, you know, have asthma.
My asthma will bother me, then I'll wind up catching pneumonia or some other sickness and  evolve with that, so.
Yeah.
It's- you know what- a- I- I still- you know, in this, um, I mean everybody has their-  everybody-  everybody has that- their course that they have to go through.
You know, and that's just- it's a part of- that's just w- what my life was at the time and I'm definitely  a lot more, um,  of course I'm a lot more stronger now.
I'm a lot more appreciative of- of just  some of the simplest things, cause I mean, nobody thinks, you know, no seven year old- eight year old, you know, thinks about  have them not- you know-  you know, them dying or not being able to be- you know, grow up and everything like that.
And I- and I was- you know I was- at certain times that was a reality to me, so.
And be able to come from that and to be where I am now  is, you know.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
Well I- I grew- and the great thing is that I grew up in the church as well.
Um, and I had uh, you know, all of my church fam-  s- family always pray for me and my mother and my parents.
You know, they always pray so you know I- I always had that type of support, so even-  even though, like, you know,   physically, you know, I was- I was ill, mentally and spiritually I always had to  keep my spirits up.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  growing- it was just so- it was so different.
Like, um, I just r- summertimes were like  amazing cause you had a whole bunch of,  um,  first you had a whole bunch of mom-and-pop stores here.
You know, where it was a lot of, you know,  y- you know,  people from the community that were doing well, you know, that had their own businesses running.
And  you know, it was just something that I was-  as a kid like, y- you know,    as a kid it wasn't like, oh wow I wanna be a business owner, but you know,  just to see somebody who-  who- you know, who looks like you or  see like, one of your friend's, you know, parents, or you know, relatives running a- you know, running a business.
It's like, oh wow.
Like,  I can't believe you doing it, you know.
And, um-  Um,   Well I remember  we used to have a candy store.
You know, I- every kid loves a candy- we used to have a candy store like, right-  right on Fourth Street- right next to the Fourth Street and Avenue C.
Right next to the grocery store that we have now.
And,  you know- just- just candy.
And, um, you know, I used to have a field day there.
And, um, me and y- just that and then we used to- there used to be a game- there used to be like, different game rooms.
And-  video games.
So we used to have one- there used to be on Third Street, then there was another one that was down, I believe on Eighth Street  and Avenue  C.
Eighth or Ninth Street or whatever.
And, you know, we would sm-  sometime- you know, when I was old enough or  you know, when my m-  my mother used to l- you know, make my brother take me somewhere, we would go down to the game room and,  you know, just  play video games.
And- and it was just like- it was just-  it was something that you would see like, um,   I always felt like I was in kind of like some type of sitcom where like, wow.
Like, you know, cause this is- this is, um, and it's- plus it was completely different from what,  you know, life was like, you know, in Brooklyn because even though I- I- I moved there from a early age, I-  you know, I still have family there so I was always there, so.
N-   exactly.
And- and the community, um,  I guess, um,  the community was different.
Not- n- not simply b- just because the people,  um, you know, the people were different, but  there was, um, a different level of success- like, you know,  people were prosper- uh, um,  being prosperous over there.
Because not only that they had  their, um, you know, they had their families, they had their homes,  had they children in school, they had their own business where, you know,  where it just let you know like, wow.
Like, this is, you know, this is my community that I'm living in.
And, um,  It was- it was different in Bed-Stuy because you didn't have,  um,  I mean, the neighborhood where my grand-  you know, where my family was at, you know, you- you definitely didn't have a lot of, you know, black-owned businesses.
And it's not-  not for the simple fact that they couldn't do it.
Well it was the s- simple fact that, um,  it just wasn't, you know,  it just wasn't in- in their mentality to do it.
You know, so, um.
Well,  growing up, yeah.
Well growing up here was, um,  of course there was a lot of, um,    you know, hm-  it was a- a very heavy, um, Hispanic population here.
And so y- you know, another aspect, especially summertimes,  you know, you'll always hear,   you know-  you know, some salsa, merengue playing  down the streets.
I know, um,    we would have-  sometimes we'd have like, different street festivals and  it'll be people that  be right outside, in- you know, in front of the building just  playing it- playing the bongos.
Got, you know, just everybody just playing just free music and  people walking by and, you know, kids playing in the park, you know, play- you know.
We would have, you know, block parties and kids is riding their bikes.
And, you know, it was just like, um, euphoria, you know what I'm saying.
Like a- as a kid just, you know, everybody is, you know,  everybody's just out enjoying themselves  and, you know.
There used to- when it used to be real hot, when we used to really have heat waves, We turn on the johnny pump and then if you look-  the crazy thing is if you'll look, um,   if you're going down, um,  different streets  on like Avenue C, if you look down the different blocks, you'll see different, um,  you know, just a johnny pump on and  it'll be like, you know,  you just see the water up in the air.
Up like, ten, fifteen feet up in the air, just people getting wet, and it's just-   enjoying themselves.
So it was, um-  Yeah, it-  it was definitely there, I mean the m-  I had a mix.
It was a mix.
You know, and that- and that was a great thing that I loved about living in this area, it was like, you know, um,  I mean, I was  s- I moved here so  early on, like it was.
There was, um,  not to say that there wasn't, um,  I- I knew who I was, I knew I was African American b- you know, I knew it's- you know, you have  your Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Mexicans, w- whatever the case was.
But, you know,  growing up being exposed, you know, to just different- living with different type of people,  you know, race wasn't that m-  the race was  never really a issue like that.
In regards to- at least with me, you know, in regards to just being able to you know, or I'm not gonna- I'm not gonna kick it with him cause he's,  you know, he's- you know,  so natio- such and such nationality.
It was never like that.
And, you know, and it- it did a lot for, you know,  for everybody.
You know, especially for me because, um,  know, as I, you know, got older, you know, went away to school and all that, you know,  just being exposed to people from different cultures and nationalities.
You know, it- it- it made me learn more about, you know, The- m- made me wanna learn more about the rest of the world and learn about those cultures.
And you know, and being able to- it made me learn m- more about myself and you know, what type of- you know,   what type of school I wanted to go to in regard for colleges, cause  we had historically black colleges, but I knew that,  um,   growing up in this area, um, I knew that going into a historically black college, that wasn't-  that wasn't my reality.
First that wasn't the world's reality, you know, you were gonna have to work with different types of people.
So, you know, growing- you know, I wanted to go to- exactly.
Exactly, so.
Mm-hm.
Race?
Um,    I- I- I didn't- I didn't see that much.
Um, not for me, you know.
A- and- but at the same time, um, you know, at the same time growing-  growing up, when I really began to be conscious of,  you know,  be conscious of, you know, my sh- my community or whatever, you know.
It m-  at that time it- it was- things were beginning to change.
You know, that's when we,  you know, gentrification was kind of like the big thing and, you know, um- yeah.
And- and not only that, people were just beginning to move out, you know, um, move out and, you know, new people came in and, you know.
It's like, you know, so it was kind of like, you know, wow I- I knew there was something different, you know, it was something different that was going on in regards to  um, something different that was going on in general, but I didn't know how much it was  impacting the rest of the community, you know.
And, um, and not necessarily to say that it was a bad thing, but by the time I became fully aware of uh what was going on, you know,  the community had already changed.
And,  you know, m- but, you know, and a- at the same time I came with the same approach that you know, change- change is constant.
And, you know, it happens,  so.
E- I mean-  yeah.
And I think-  I think the major thing, um,  in regards to the whole issue of genf- gentrification, um, a lot of people feel different ways about it.
You know, differently about it.
I think that there's not a problem, um,  I think that you- you-  you can't expect, you know, one neighborhood to be  the same way it is all the time.
That's, you know, that's-  that's not, um,  I mean, i- it's not gonna happen, nine out of ten times.
Uh, but I do think that there-   when,  you know,  gentrification is that much of a big issue here, I think it's important to  be able to, you know, to talk about it.
And not just talking about it amongst- amongst yourselves, but talking about it  you know, with the people who are, you know,  who are coming into the community Like, yo.
Because, you know, they don't-  you know, they don't see it as, oh you're the shr-, you know,  you're coming in here and trying to change it.
They don't look at it from that perspective.
You know, they look at it as from,  you know,  aye, I moved into this great area, you know, um,  I have a new opportunity at life, you know, uh, of starting n- starting anew, and, um, I wanna make the most out of it.
Exactly, so.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So, I mean, with that, like I- I never was- I was never angry about it.
Um,  I- I thought that there coulda been more done in regards to,  um,  whether- whether it was to relieve the tension or whether it was to makes sure that, um,   people were  given the fair treatment to be able to stay  in their homes, especially if they've lived there  for, you know, X amount of- I was always against you know, raising- you know, raising the rent to kick people who- kick people out who-  w- we're the ones that, you know-  you know, we made this community what it was.
You know, and to just completely disregard them as if they were nothing, you know, as if they were nobody,  so that you can, you know,  be able to bring in somebody who's able to pay the, you know,  pay the amount of rent that you want them to pay.
You know, so I was always against that.
And it- and- and- and that for- that's when you blame-  that's when kind of blame or criticize the landlords, cause they're the one who,  you know, you are in control of doing this.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
I went to- sure.
I went to- alight.
I- I began at,  um,  I went to RD-SCHOOL-6, um, for I think it was pre-K.
Pre-K- I went to- I went when I- when I was- I remember that was the first school I ever went to.
And, um, I was nervous.
It was- RD-SCHOOL-6 is right on, um,   RD-ADDRESS-2  towards RD-ADDRESS-4.
Um- yep.
I- yeah, a little nervous.
I remember like, the first days of school and I remember learning my ABC's.
And I was like, you know, what is m- m- you know, why is my mother leaving me here with these people I don't even know.
You know, I remember doing that and- yeah.
And then I went to- I attended the-  RD-SCHOOL-5.
for- um, which is right here.
Mm-hm.
RD-SCHOOL-5, first grade to sixth grade.
And, um, after that I went to RD-SCHOOL-8.
Um, it's on RD-ADDRESS-7.
And that th- b- or- at the time, it began from seventh grade up until twelfth grade, so.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yep,  so.
No it wasn't.
A lot of that stuff w- it wasn't there when I was there.
Uh.
But, um, yeah it's cool.
Never been- Mm-hm.
Seventh to twelve.
Um, it was actually  it was one of the best schools I've- I've ever gone to.
Yeah.
And, um,   you know at first it was, um,  at first it was a challenge because my mother made me go to that school.
Um, because all of my f- I wanted to go to the school where all my friends was going.
So junior high- Junior High School Fifty-Six,  Junior High School Twenty-Two, all these different, you know, schools that was around the way.
And she was completely against it because she knew of course, um, if I was going there where rest of my friends were, you know, it was easy- more easily for me to be  influenced to do, um, you know,  kind of do the wrong thing.
And Yeah, well and I was never- and I was never a bad kid, you know.
I was never a bad kid but, um, you know, so.
But she- She was adamant on me going to RD-SCHOOL-2 and I was like, you know what okay.
It was a different- it was a alternative school.
And plus, you know, the- the- the one thing  that, um, that was great about it is that my mother,  you know,  my mother actually had a chance to sit down and speak with the principal at the time, who was the founding principal her name was RD-NAME-3.
And, um,  you know, she really spoke to her about this and this,  you know, I'm-  I wanna  take my son to a school where he can get a proper education and  be able to, um, you know,  be exposed to just,  you know,  new things that will be able to, you know, benefit him in the long run.
And-  and   I wound up going to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And, you know, it was-  it was tough at first because  I didn't know-  practically I really didn't know anybody there, so.
You know, just meeting, you know, everybody in elementary school we knew each other for the most part, from first grade up until sixth grade, and now I'm in this new school where  I practically really don't know anybody at all.
And  trying to meet new friends and,  you know, it was- it was- it was- it was a tough transition at first.
I mean, I never- I wound up meeting some good people there and, um,   you know,  by the time I was in the eighth grade though, I was, um,  I really challenged myself to, you know,   in my academics and, um, I wound up you know, I wound up going out to DC our first year.
Um, eighth grade I wound up going to DC for, uh, a program due to  you know, my academics.
And- and then the following year in ninth grade I went to Chile for two weeks  at- the school took us to Chile.
And the great thing is that- yeah.
The great thing is at RD-SCHOOL-2 they always- they prepared us for,  um, for college.
And they p- always prepared us for,  um, the next level.
Is that- is that messing you up?
Alright.
Nah, I'm not gonna- it's not- no, it's not for me.
But, um, it always prepared us for, um,  just for the next level.
And, um,  Yep, you- you have to work- Exactly.
And, you know, at RD-SCHOOL-2 that's when I really- I knew I wanted to go to college.
But, um,  b-  a- and RD-SCHOOL-2 that's when I really began to,  um, gain my  confidence academically, what I was able to do and what type,  you know, what type of colleges that I know I wanted to go to.
And, I mean, ninth grade I was  looking at Yale University and- and Brown, and all these type of schools.
And it was because I was that- I was that sure and confident of myself that,  you know, I was able to, um, yeah.
I y- I used to- I think my ninth grade I had a GPA of three point eight.
And like I always- I- you know what I- I- I- I worked hard and, you know, and- and the great is that, um, the reason I was able to work that hard is because of the teachers and the administration that were there.
They always encouraged you, they always took that extra time to,  you know, working with different project with you-  projects with you that you were dealing with, or.
Even if there was some assignments that you, you know, you didn't complete they like, listen this is what you need to do.
And, um, And the principal, um- um,  her-  RD-NAME-3's predecessor, RD-NAME-4 who is currently the principal now, he was so influential, um, in regards to just the whole student body and bringing new, you know,  new activities to the school.
We had a, um- a  liberal arts program  where  that's when I first, um,   first really, you know,  got into poetry.
And, um,  and I- I wanna develop in my poetry skills, and I- I've developed a passion for it.
And so it was just so many things that they- they exposed us to and  would take us to college, you know,  do college trips early on just to allow us to  you know, m- more mentally than anything, allowing us to know that we, you know, we were able to get,  you know, we can get into these colleges and we belong in college.
I mean, we w-  it was just- it was great, great school to go to.
Great school to go to and,  I mean, it was some of the best times of my life there.
Yeah.
Um, basketball.
Very, I was a big basketball fan.
And, um, I- the only g-  one thing I do regret is that I never, um, I never tried out for the basketball team at RD-SCHOOL-2.
I never did that and, um- but I mean, it's whatever.
I- as a hobby, yes.
And chess.
Chess was another thing I was- I was interested in.
And I took drama, I took acting classes.
I used to- I have.
It's- they- they exposed us to a lot of stuff.
And they were constantly, you know, going on school trips each year.
Um, we would-  we went to Montreal, went to Boston,  uh, Philadelphia, you know we just went to different places.
And it was- it was- it was a great, you know, it was a great experience.
Especially, you know,  and as a high school student going, you know, going with your school to, you know, just different- different places around the- you know, around the country or around the world it was nothing like it, so.
Mm-hm.
Afterwards I- um, afterwards I w- I decided to go to RD-SCHOOL-8 for college.
Yep.
Yep.
I went- y- yes they- yes they did.
Went to RD-SCHOOL-8,  um.
It- you know what, it was- it was tough my first- it was the same way how it was in, um,  RD-SCHOOL-1- it was more t-  tough socially more than anything.
Um, because you know,  you were- high school, you see all these movies about  what college is like  and then, you know, um,  you know, I go to college and it's nothing like it.
You know, it was nothing like it and I went to a- a small- small, private university.
Um, you know, it wasn't your Duke- I lived on campus as well.
I live- RD-SCHOOL-3 was, um,  the main campus is in Garden City, New York,  so, um Mm-hm.
Yeah.
So I lived on campus and  it was just first off, at freshman orientation  it just rained.
It rained like all day, and it was like a torrential rain.
Like,  monsoon rain.
And you know what I'm saying, it raining  and you move in there  and every- just like, yo, dag.
This is college- you know what I'm saying?
It just- it- it was not a good start to my- my college career.
And you know.
And so, um,  I just really wasn't into it and now- you know, I was kind of, um,  I was just, you know, I was h- um, city boy, you know.
And I'm-  and this, you know, at- on the weekends, y-  everything was dead, everybody went home for the weekends, you know, for the most part.
And- yeah, a lot of people went home for the week- cause it was- it- we had we had, um, dorms but it was a big community school as well.
A lot of- a lot of people from the city did live, um,    live in Brooklyn- I mean, live on campus.
But  you know, there wasn't, um- my freshman year  like, the campus life, um,  it just really wasn't as,  you know,  as good as it was in the later years.
Like w- we really developed, you know, over the years, you know, campus like really, really became like, yeah wow, this is-  this is great, this is what I want it to be.
And-   Yeah, and I actually thought about, after my freshman year, I actually really considered transferring.
From RD-SCHOOL-3 to Tuskegee University, but then, um, I decided to stay.
And, um- but you know,  and from my sophomore year on,  you know, I just-  I- I r-  my- after my sophomore year, I really fell in love with the school.
And I- I really began to,  you know, challenge myself academically.
Um, a- a- and just trying to, you know,  b- s- meeting new people and just talking, you know,  talking to new friends and not just kind of like,   k- you know, stay  in the box in regards to who  I was gonna be able to, you know- who- who did I think that I was gonna be  good friends with.
And you know, I just trying to just  meet different types of people.
And I w- I went there and I graduated in two thousand six,  m- undergrad degree.
Um,  and I went back  to RD-SCHOOL-3 for grad school and in two thousand eight I got my master's.
In business, so.
In business administration, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Um,  well I was working in politics for-  for about a year.
I was working in politics.
I worked for, um,  the city council, for council member RD-NAME-4 for a year,  which was   an experience.
You know, the crazy thing is, um,  prior to that, um,   that summer I just graduated,  um, wasn't really search-  um, this is when like, the economy was really,  you know, it was like, uh-  it was really-  people began to start saying we're in a recession, so.
You know, um,  exactly, right?
And I- I mean, I wasn't really stressing it too, cause I had, you know,  I went to school s- six years straight.
Um, and I was like, you know what, I'm- my- I- let me just take the summer off and just relax.
So I wound up-  by the end of the summer, I wound up, um,   n-  joining a non-profit organization.
I was just  doing some- some, um, part time work there.
And I- a-  and within that period that I was there, I developed a great relationship with the CEO,  um, of the organization who happened to be friends with the city council member  that was looking for, you know, some new talent, and  was introduced to her.
And  pretty much that's how  the story went.
I worked for a year.
I was her- her Senior Community- um, I was her- not- she actually wasn't-  she was already in office.
She was already in office.
Um, so- Her Senior Community Liaison.
Which basically meant  I did- d-  um, w- well- which basically meant that I helped out  with different constituents who came to her office.
They had, you know,  problems or- or issues,  in regards to paying their rent,  in regards to being evicted, or looking for jobs, like we would get in contact.
I would get in contact with different city agencies to see,  you know, what they can do to help them out.
So I would do that, I was also, you know, write her speeches.
I was her speech writer.
Uh, um, I did a lot of stuff- I,  you know, I did  organize c- events for her, I would speak on her behalf at different events.
Um,  I did a lot of stuff for her.
I- I liked it.
I liked it a lot, I- I liked it for the simple fact that I learned a lot.
It was, um,  very, very stressful environment.
Um, yeah, it's- it was very s- very, very stressful because, you know, it was just everything was going on.
She was, um,   she, you know,  she was always on the go, she wasn't necessarily the best manager so, you know, a lot of stuff that we had to do,  um- and we was in the biggest district  in the city council.
Forty-first district.
And at the time we had- my ch- and we were a young staff, you know,  my Chief of Staff was twenty-three  and I was twenty-four.
And, you know, I was like, second in command  and then, you know, her schedule- her special assistant was twenty-four as well.
So we were like- and we had like, other- couple other staff members that were there, but it was pretty much my Chief of Staff, myself, and RD-NAME-2.
Um-  um, RD-NAME-2 was her special assistant.
We were kind of like-  we ran the office,  and you know.
And, um,   it was, um.
I-  it was a great, great experience.
Like I said, it was  very, very stressful a lot of the times, but, um, we- we- we did well.
You know, we- we, um, we definitely, um,   we definitely did well.
And I think we were one of the hardest  working in people in this- you know,    arguably- and not, you know- in the city council.
In regards to the amount of work that we had to do and, um, still be able to run a office at the same time and still put on events  in the community, from  January to July.
We'd put on about,  at least twenty-five to thirty events for her.
Of this year.
Um, what happened was, you know, me and her, um-  Um.
all I- this- it the-  Nah, I can say is- is- well she- she definitely, um, a large part of my-  she was definitely felt threatened by- by us.
In- in regards to  her- her staff because, uh, you know, we were  young,  very educated, um,  Chief of Staff must've had a master's in-  she didn't- exactly.
And she felt-  she felt threatened by it.
And so, because of that, um, she actually let go me and her Chief of Staff on the same day.
Yeah.
Yeah, but you know what the thing is  we were kind of- she tried to-  there's been more than a couple of times where she would, um,  you know, she would try to set us up for failure.
Like, we- we had the-  she forced us to work on her campaign  and we had to-  we had to do a, um,   a fundraiser in three days  and raise two thousand dollars.
And, which is like, you know, three days to do a fundraiser and raise two thousand dollars,  that's, you know, that's pretty ridiculous.
But we wound up  raising three thousand for her, so.
Y- yeah, that probably- but you know, she would- it would just, you know.
It was just- it was a very, very- it was very- it was an adventure-  yep.
Well, my next step is I'm- I'm doing community organizing now.
Yes I am.
I'm doing community organizing now.
We actually had a-  that's why you see those boxes over there, we had a back to-  oh, they were over there, back there, we had a back to school event.
Um, where we helped-  um, I'm working by myself.
So, yeah.
I'm working- my mother- and the great thing is my mother is the the Tenant Associate President, so we just do events through our, um,  through our development.
And, um, and-  which allows me to be able to work more independently, you know, just with myself and my mother, and just  I- I have, you know,  pretty much have a lot of control on regards to what type of events we wanna do.
Um, so, um, I'm doing that a lot.
Um, and I'm always helping out with a couple of campaigns.
Um, RD-NAME-4 who was a city council member, in our district, I actually helped her  on her reelection campaign where  she wound up getting eighty-two percent of the vote.
So, um, that was amazing.
Yes, yes.
That was amazing success, and we have a, you know, we're developing a pretty good relationship as well.
Um-  um, I- I think, um,  I think I- I-  I- I can see myself doing that.
Um,  but  my- my main focus and now, you know, RD-NAME-4 is our- is our city council member.
And so, you know, my- my main focus is this community- is- is the community itself.
So I'm- I'm just committed to doing whatever we can to make sure that we provide our community resources,  um, limiting the amount of violence and, um,  illegal activity that's going on here.
And, um,  and just making sure that everybody is happy.
Or- or, making sure, you know,   for the most part that, you know-  you know, that we're  we're living in a har- harmonious society, so.
That's pretty much what I'm interested in doing, yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Mm-hm.
Twenty- mm-hm.
Um.
Yeah.
I- I- it's definitely become more upscale.
Um, in regards to just the- just d- different type of businesses that are here.
Just in regards to the different type of people who are around here.
You know, which is like I said, is not a- is- is- is not a bad thing,  um, it's not a bad thing at all because,  you know, change is- not necessarily, change is constant.
Um,   I- I- I just wish that there were more,  you know,  more businesses that were here, you know-  you know, f- a lot of people who were-  I wish there was more businesses,  you know, here that,  um,  people from our, you know, people who grew up here were able to start on they own.
And I think, um, I think a lot of-  a lot of it has to- reason why we don't have it  is not because they don't want to but  just the- the amount of money they have to afford to p- you know keep  rent open, you know.
And, you know, it- it's- it's tough.
It's tough.
Exactly.
And- n- the- the great- a great example of it, um, on Sixth we used to have, like this-  this amazing Chinese restaurant right on Sixth Street and, um, Avenue C.
And, I mean, it was there f- since o- you know, since I could remember.
And, you know,   they wound up shutting down because, you know, they couldn't afford the rent or whatever the case was.
And, you know,  now we have a wine store there.
Which, you know, wine- I'm a- I'm a avid wine lover.
But, you know, it just lets you know that, you know,  um, it's a shift, you know.
And it's like, um,  you know, this-  this is n-  this, um, business was there, you know, since I can remember, since I was a kid.
And, you know it- it's unfortunate that, you know-  you know, um, they no longer could be here because of the fact that they can't afford it.
And there's no fault to the wine store cause,  you know, they- they did-  than their business and then they trying to open up shop here, it's a great neighborhood.
So- so much and so forth.
But, uh, I just think that I wish there was more, um,   I mostly- I wish there was more that could be done  to make sure-  exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Well I-  I think the Lower East Side is from- of course, from Avenue D, um, the whole section of Avenue D and over  towards, um, where Williamsburg is at.
And, um, it's- it's pretty v- Lower East Side is pretty big.
You know, um, it's-  Um, Yes, I do.
Mm-hm.
Um.
hm.
I'm trying to- north meaning like up towards Avenue- I would say, yeah- I would think, um, I- I don't even think it would go that far up into-  I think  the Lower East Side is up until, um,      I- I wanna say up until-  yeah, up until Fourteenth Street and about Avenue-  Avenue A.
That's- I don't think that- that's not the Lower East Side.
Um, Yeah, you cross Houston still.
Delancey- yep, Delancey still.
Um, cause it's Delancey- after- past Delancey, um,    you know what?
After- past-  you go o-  I believe all the- I wanna say up until, like,  about Grand Street.
I would consider that to be like, the Lower East Side.
Yeah.
I would consider that.
No it's-  Chinatown is Chinatown.
Mm-hm.
Chinatown- yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Mm-hm.
Well- well I think, um,  it's different, you know.
I- I definitely think,  um,  I see this block as being one community.
Um- - yeah.
Because, you know what the- the- the thing is, um,   the thing is that you could- we all grew up- everybody who's living this block, you know,  it's pretty much watched- watched each other growing up.
We've been friends  or- since we were kids.
You know, and so there's a- there's a history that's there.
And there's a common bond that we share there.
So, you know, that's what makes- that's what- I l- that's what makes it special.
Like, you know,  We have Fifth Street and Avenue D,  um,  I barely know anybody that's over there.
Or- or people who I know as like, you know, we- we've- we known because we've- we've grown up, we went to the same school, or,  you know, our parents may know each other.
But  we necessarily were never friends but, you know, there's a mutual respect that's there.
But that doesn't necessarily-  um, they're part of our, um,  they're part of our community, but they kind of like the- th- the distant cousins.
You know what I'm saying?
Like- it's like- but   and I think it-  just in the Lower East Side is- is- is a neighborhood itself.
Um, and I think, um,   depending- I think you base your community on, you know,  at least for me,  in regards to, you know, the people who you-  who you, you know- who you-  who you kind of, you know, grew up with, basically.
Y- you weren't- who you were- interact with yourself- myself, cause I, you know, I- I live on RD-ADDRESS-2.
There's not too many people who I- I socialize with on- on Ninth Street.
You know, and- you know, but we're still in the same area.
Doesn't mean that we don't, you know-  doesn't mean that, you know-   you know, we're f-  from two completely different, you know-  they're not from the West Side, but we just, you know, we don't interact like that, so.