Okay.
I was born on May the fifth, nineteen twenty-nine.
At the Jewish Hospital in Brooklyn, Park Ave- uh, Park Place and Franklin Avenue.
Um.
I-  I spent  most of my life  the early life,  first sixteen years of it anyway,  in Brooklyn.
Um.
I went to public school forty-four, RD-SCHOOL-3 High School,  and then I-  you know, I went away to college.
Um.
After grad school, I went into the Air Force, and  I-  you know, I had a ROTC commission, so I had to  pay back that couple of years.
And while I was in, and just before I  you know, got  um,  this is  just before I came out of the service, um.
Um.
I gave my mother enough money to buy an apartment here on the Lower East Side, and that was in Nineteen,  um,  fifty-six.
And, so she bought this co-op.
The incredible thing about that, and I think that relates very much to this whole thing about Lower East Side issue.
Um.
The Co-op, I- we paid twenty seven hundred dollars for it.
It is now worth four hundred and fifty thousand.
You know.
So, what that means  quite specifically is that-  that  poor people are being marginalized right out of their neighborhood.
pretty quickly.
Okay.
But anyway, that  you know, the- after the - I  I didn't live in it  for a long time, because after  the Air Force,  you know I got married and I lived in-  in Harlem for a while,  then I moved back to Washington  uh, for several years.
And then,  Washington DC Yeah, I went to RD-SCHOOL-7 in Washington DC.
I hadn't I hadn't mentioned that.
Both for graduate and undergraduate school.
And uh, I moved back to Washington DC, then, then eventually  moved back to New York.
And um.
I- I had a major in psychology,  and I couldn't.
My first job was in RD-WORK-8, which is a mental institution in Washington DC.
And I couldn't stand  uh,  being locked in to go to work.
A- and over- I was really overcome by that whole process.
And and it- i- i- interestingly, what it did to me was i- it um,  Somehow, transmorphed into-  into, um,  a feeling that I really  couldn't help those people.
Because  you know, they were Institutionalized i- i- in a locked in  sort of basis, with mental illness  which meant, they were really sick.
And- and I just felt I  you know,  me,  I- I'm not a  PhD or an MD, I'm just a guy that took a masters in  tests and measurements.
a- and so, that, you know, I was doing that sort of routinized thing you know a-  works-  works above you, MMPS, all that kind of stuff.
And as I said, I can't really help people like this, and it's beginning to depress me so,  I took  the training  that I received  and  turned it into  a marketing skill.
Mkay.
I became a marketing researcher.
I did  really very good work here in New York City, and that lot of  And then I moved from that  into  the advertising agency, was the first Black to be  um,  an account executive on an important account at a major advertising agency in New York City.
Um.
And uh,  you know, formed an adg-  a organization called RD-WORK-9 that was committed  in the um  in the sixties, the mid-sixties  to try to increase the  presence of  blacks  in the  advertising business.
And  eh- I- I must admit, I- I was b-  I don't  for some ex- inexplicable reason, I was  pretty successful  as a marketing executive.
And, and then I aggressively recruited by the RD-WORK-6 to um,  I was recruited as  manager of marketing services and  you know, just kind of moved through that.
Um.
Became  the very first black person to ever publish  a-  a-  world wide  magazine  that was not edited es-  re- especially for African Americans, I published Stereo Review, Popular Electronics, and four or five other  um,  annuals that were related to that.
I had offices in  four offices in two countries,  um I- I had a really spectacular career doing that.
And.
I did that for about thirteen years, and then moved from that into um,  the  Vice President of marketing for the corporation.
I was only the third  Vice President of Marketing.
They've only had four throughout i- i- in the- in the fifty year history for the company.
And um,  then I  when I got tired of that, I became Vice President in charge of starts and  acquisitions and mergers and things like that, so I  and then  somehow, th- I felt  really wasn't what I wanted to do, you know, to create all this wealth for- for one- a single family or  family and other people.
And and s- it was- it was a funny kind of thing, but I  s- thought I had enough juice  to  start my own consulting firm.
And  the whole  thrust of it was, I was gonna provide these high level marketing services  to-  to minority persons who were trying to  get business, or couldn't access that otherwise.
I lost a fortune.
You- you know because I- I did a lot of work.
And, um.
You know, people didn't have money or they couldn't pay, whatever the situation was.
Um.
It was good though.
You know, it kept me active.
Kept my mind active.
Um.
And then,  I found this church.
Found this church.
It was  right after my mother died in nineteen,  I guess,  ninety-three,  thereabouts, and  I joined this church,  and  all of a sudden, I was reminded of a life long ambition that I'd had.
I wanted to be an episcopal minister for years.
But,  as time went on,  I- I had become so secular  so hedonistic,  that I thought that this couldn't.
Oh that'll never work, you know   given the life that I had led.
Uh.
When I s-  started speaking to spo-  Father RD-NAME-2 about it,  with this, in terms of him sponsoring me.
And then we had another priest here, that was, and I was talking to him about it and he-  And he said very simple thing to me, that m-  that allowed me to  proceed.
He said,  said,  the Lord doesn't call those  you know,  who are ready  to serve.
He makes ready  those that he calls.
So, I s- well, you know, it made eminent sense to me, so they- at least gave me the juice to enter into what was an incredible process, you know, because I said,  I didn't want to  didn't wanna become a priest  at that age  cause I was in my sixties then.
And um,  I said, but I wanted to be a deacon because in a  episcopal church,  there are three levels of ministry, there's a bishop, he has charge of a large area, like  city of New York.
Then, there's a priest, he had charge of the gathered flock of him in a church.
And there's the deacon whose  image is always  the person standing in the door, looking out into the world,  and so the responsibility  is to  take the message of the church out to the people  in the street.
So, the idea of a street ministry  truly appealed to me you know.
So, you know, I studied for four years, and ho- but then I was ordained  in um,  in May of two thousand, and reassigned to this church.
Um.
And i- it- in-  um.
During that period, just before ordination, uh, like um  they started this Slave Galleries Project, uh,  this church has the  peculiar anomaly of  two slave galleries was a part of it's original architecture,  and So,  Father RD-NAME-2's whole thing was that  because of this whole gentrification phenomenon, that  you kn-  the f-  the children  of the families represented by our congregation here,  would not be able to live in this neighborhood.
Yeah, like my son couldn't afford to buy my apartment.
Okay.
So, um, I'm- I'm gonna give it to him eventually, but you know, if he had to buy it, he'd really be in trouble.
So,  Uh.
He said that  Well, we need to do something  that-  that will survive us.
And so,  it was his idea  that  perhaps,  this- the restoration.
Hello.
The restoration and preservation of the galleries and it's all.
Don't worry.
Of the sla-  slave galleries, um  would probably provide enough information  you know  to  to serve as a testament  to the presence of African Americans here long  you know, before anybody r-  ever gave credence to that.
So, I thought you know I said you know, that's really a good idea.
He said, well, I'm glad you like it because you got it.
And I said,  I said, look, I'm a businessman turned minister, I don't know anything at all about restoration, preservation, or history.
I hated history.
You know.
But,  luckily for us, we had this um, longstanding re-  um,  relationship with the Tenement Museum.
And so, they agreed to partner with us and  to  act a fiscal conduit and  show us how to really get into this whole idea  of um, restoring a historic site.
So, I- I literally signed on  with them as a consultant  uh, for three years, which was interesting, because I was  a paid consultant, but I was really learning  the whole thing.
Um.
And so we got started on the research, and we did  the research on two levels and  we raised about  alm- nearly a quarter of a million dollars for  for this, for interns, and whole like.
And we were doing research on a genealogical  you know, who  who were the people who started this church,  who sat in those galleries, that whole aspect of it.
Um.
And  on the architectural, what could the space itself.
The ghosts of the space.
What could it tell us?
You know.
So,  o- it was amazing because  we immediately began to get a lot of ink,  a lot of press about it, a lot of  people began to be  you know, interested.
Um.
And,  we were encouraged to proceed,  but  of course,  now  it had gotten so large  that the Tenement Museum  they were pretty much forced to  cut us loose.
And you know, with their blessing, and so here I am on this thing, I said oh,  God, you know.
What do I do now?
You know.
So, Yeah, so what I did was, we- we formed this corporation, not for profit corporation, called r- called RD-WORK-6.
And our mission is to  to-  to- you know, just to  enhance and follow through on the whole concept  of the restoration and preservation of the  of the slave galleries Ideally,  you know, our pie in the sky vision,  is that the s-  the information, which is getting to be quite considerable,  um,  that we  put together,  would eventually  be a seminal force that could start maybe  an African American museum here in  Lower Manhattan, and none exist.
You know.
You have sure, you have the burial ground,  but they're all very sple-  but there isn't a  a repository of information that tells about  the kind and quality  of contribution that African Americans made to life in Lower Manhattan.
And  and so eh- the thing of it is that the first thing I did was I had to try to  figure out, well, what's gonna be  our  focus.
Cause one of the first bit of data that we uncovered, was that the very first non-indigenous person to live in this city  was a person of African decent.
He was a Afro-Portuguese sailor, who sailed into the harbor in 1613 on a Dutch ship, As- as a translator, because he knew Indian dialect somehow.
And uh.
He was abandoned in the harbor.
Had a argument with the ship's captain, he left him here, they sailed off without him.
And he co-habited with the Rockaway Indians and  quite frankly, we give him credit for having started the African American population here,  in uh,  i- in Manhattan.
And that was in 1613.
And it was about eight  years later or so when the first  nine or ten  uh,  African  female slaves were brought into the harbor.
Um.
As a work force.
And then, the whole slave trade began to  to burgeon.
Now, people.
There's slavery in New York, well what kind of they-, you know, enlightened bastion, of- of,  you know progress in the North.
Yeah, you know what I-  Yeah.
And so the whole thing was The whole thing was, was that there was no city  in this country, during the height of the slave trade  that had more slaves  than New York.
You know, the only city wa- there was one city.
It was Charleston, South Carolina.
Right?
They had a  burgeoning slave market, and we had a slave market here at Forty Wall Street.
where of a given morning, you could buy a slave, you could rent a European worker, or- or- or- or  an Indian  cook, or whatever.
You know.
Yo-  They dealt in flesh, right there, Forty Wall Street.
So,  s- th- th- thi- whi- that  really  caused me to  or res-  and it  allowed me  to sort of  fine tune  what the mission would be about.
My experience with the Tenement Museum,  used to make me very angry.
because, almost everything that they do is  proscribed by  the building  that they have  okay, they.
Okay.
Which was fine,  but,  what it does  in the way they  present  is it creates the impression  that  immigration  meant  that great  in-migration that took place in the middle nineteenth century.
You know, all these Europeans came, and settled in the Lower East Side, and they lived in these tenements,  and  that was it.
And I said to myself, well  you know  there was an African American population here in the  seventeenth century, And in the eighteenth century, it was a Hispanic population, and a l- very large  a  Indian population and  and  and, and Chinese, and  you know, and I said,  they were the people  who built  the infrastructure of the city.
Bec- otherwise,  those European immigrants could not have got from Ellis Island  to the Lower East Side, there was just no way.
You found somebody put the streets and the roads and all that stuff in- in place.
And so, that's what gives us our focus now, is that  that part of history is the story yet to be told.
And so, we're working hard  at- at  developing that part of it.
Um.
We meet roadblocks because there are a lot of people who don't like competition in New York City.
You know because everybody's competing for the same dollars.
You know.
Me- You know what I mean.
Yeah.
And so we, but- but, we're, you know, we're pushing on, we're persevering as best we can.
Um.
We're now  I got a couple or few grants  b- this year  um,  to, uh,  do certain things, like we built a website.
Um.
Wa- we- we're developing a curriculum  um,  that  we hope will get New York State  approval  so that  if a teacher wants to bring a class from anywhere in the state,  um,  that we will send them information to use in the classroom about  you know  African American history  you know, or par-  particularly in New York City and then they'll be the visit,  and then  we'll give them  materials to use post visit.
You know.
So we're hoping to get that set, because once we do that, then  uh, o- one thing we can do is that we can get funding for  those,  um,  inner city schools,  so to speak,  who s-  can't afford to pay.
for a- a tour.
And so, we can give that funded, and you know, uh,  expose the  the- the materials that were developing pretty rapidly,  to a wider  audience.
We're now members of the the International Coalition of Historic Sites of Conscience  that  you know,  and we've had visitors from all over the world come here.
You know.
Um, in the last  seven or eight years, and so, the- there is an awareness building  um,   I- I  put us into the uh,  the um,  the North East African American preservation group  that's run out of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, so we're- we're connecting and-  and networking with a lot of other sites around, you know.
A- and so, that's what I've been doing  you know, I- I am the busiest retired person in America, I'm seventy nine years old, I work too hard, you know, but, uh, The opposite of that is boredom.
right?
So I- uh, So, But, um Yeah, and- and so, ye- so, you know the st-  the sum of it all is- is that I've- I've been here on the Lower East Side  I f-  maintain a legal residence, put it that way.
For  fifty two years or something.
And um.
Well, I just- what I was just about to ??
Um.
What I remember about this neighborhood was that  it was  a lot  it was always a busy place.
It's very busy right now.
Kay.
And, you know  e-  as a  youngster growing up in Brooklyn,  my grandmother, and my mother, and her sister, they were both master seamstresses.
And, so they, they worked.
They-  they made  clothing for very-  for  wealthy, private customers who lived in Brooklyn Heights and places like that.
And so every Sunday,  you know, my grandmother, and my mother and my aunt, and they would all schlep us  o-  me, myself, and my cousin,  over here to Orchard Street  around  to buy f- fabric and notions a- and things of that sort, you know.
And  and I remember the-  I remember egg creams a- and Charlotte Russe and I mean very vividly, you know, that was an important part of my life.
And-  because we used to have to carry the stuff back, so we would always get rewarded.
before the fact.
Um.
But, i- i- i- it was always an interesting neighborhood to me  and  what  interested me about it,  the- as a youngster growing up,  and now  even,  was the heterogeneity.
I mean  this is the most incredible thing, I'm- I'm still  you know,  overwhelmed by a walk from here to China Town.
You know, you  there's no telling where a person is from, right?
That you might encounter.
And that makes it so, so very exciting.
You know.
Then,  um.
A- as a youth,  growing up in-  in-  in Brooklyn  and going to high school  on the  in Lower Manhattan on fifteenth street,  it's , it was So, I would get off the subway every day,  a- the F train, Second Avenue stop and Houston and I would walk to Fifteenth Street.
and so the- I knew everything.
I mean I knew the sec- the Yiddish theater, I knew who the actors were, I knew all the delicatessens.
Excuse me.
And so  I had-  I had an incredibly rich  life.
Because of all of the infusion of all these  various cultures.
Now,  the thing about it  then, and you have to forgive me, I have a really bad sinus condition.
It- Um.
The thing about it  now  as opposed to then,  is that  it seems to be becoming  so rapidly, a neighborhood for the privileged.
Mm.
And.
I mean, there were always people of wealth here.
There ar- there was always an incredible  you know, artistic community  it dispersed,  at- at least  I know for the last  seventy-odd years or more.
Um.
But we  went down the entire socioeconomic scale.
And then, during the thirties,  particularly, and right up until nineteen forty-two  everybody was poor.
Cause  the Great Depression was upon us.
As a-  nobody had any  you know, very few people.
Right, that's right.
And- and so, that was an interesting phenomenon, in it of itself, it had the-  the-  the-  the effect of  bonding together, people of-  of very diverse backgrounds, and ethnicities, and things, cause we were all in same boat.
You know.
And then, along came World War Two, and of course people began to  do a little better because of  there were opportunities that  to earn um, and  the like.
But now,  it seems like  all those people who  their image counterparts,  i- in- in the  thirties, forties, fifties, and sixties, and even  s-  even  seventies and eighties,  who used to work hard  and achieve  a- and raise their families and the like, and enjoy  the neighborhood and it's vibrancy and it's character are replaced  by a much smaller group of very bright, very intelligent, very hard working people who are m-  earning  incredible amounts of money, and so they've raised a- the- the-  the cost of everything  to the degree that it's pricing other people out.
Poor people  are just being forced right out  of the neighborhood.
and I think that's a  very very  dangerous thing  particularly for New York.
It's not as if we were just a small community, a suburban community somewhere,  and the character  could change and  and another one similar to it would s-  sn-  you know, spring up adjacent,  i-  adjacent to it.
What this is, is that there are people who are going to be displaced.
With no real concern for what happens to them.
You know.
And that's part of the reason why  those lots are still empty.
over there  on- on- on, uh,  Broome  and Delancey and you know, Essex to I guess Norfolk, or thereabout Y- That's about it right?
And  And  a- i- i- as I see it,  and I read it,  It's because guys like Sheldon Silver, and- and  and, and his cohorts  they really don't care  about us.
And then you have  the- the- there is another  effort  to  to create  in fact it's i-  it's not even so subtle.
i- they  i-  i-  this area's being marketed as the-  the  cradle of American Jewry.
Okay.
I mean, that's alright, but  as long as you  realize that  there are a lot different kinds of people rocking that cradle.
A-  And that and b- b- but, the thing of it is, is that  they're trying to control  the character  of the neighborhood.
See, one of the founders of this church,  James P.
Allaire,  built the very first tenement  down here in Lower Manhattan.
Okay.
He rented it to whoever could pay the eight dollars or so.
You know, for a three hundred and seventy five dollar square- a three hundred seventy five square foot  apartment, that was so small, you had to come outside to change your mind, right?
And-  And it was a bathroom in the hallway.
Now, that same space, that same amount of space if it still exists, has been redone, redecorated, bathrooms moved inside, and suddenly you're gonna cost fifteen hundred dollars a month.
So,  you could see how it's leap-frogged over a substantial population of people who would like to stay in the neighborhood and rent that kind of space, they can't.
They really can't.
And so, tha- tha- those,  those lots over there are being- the Seward Park thing.
It- it-  they're being fought over vigorously, and have been for years,  because as I understand it, and I don't really know  all the  you know  specifics  a- as I understand it is that  the- there are  a certain  percentage of the housing  to be developed there  is supposed to be designated  as  below  market rate income.
Okay.
That's a game.
I mean, that's the biggest  charade  since, I don't know, since Cheez-its.
A- y- you-  you know, y-  Look take Harlem, for example.
You've got  a situation where Harlem is being gentrified rapidly.
You've got churches buying property and buildings and things like that, and they  and they're rationalizing, like, oh yeah, we're gonna put a lot of  e- lower income housing, like  okay.
But the low  income housing  is pegged  to  a median income- i- is only a- like a small t-  ten, fifteen, twenty percent max,  pegged to a median income of like  forty thousand dollars  forty-five  and the median income in Harlem is like fifteen thousand dollars.
So, So, wha- wha- what does that mean?
Yeah.
Exactly.
And  and- and- it's re- very frustrating to me  because I recall having gone to a meeting a couple of years ago over at that-  that um,  building that the Chinese have over there on Houston Street  Um.
The- I think it's  near Christy, or one of those.
They- they have a- like a f-  a community center facility.
And i- i- this whole question, you know, of-  of um,  of restoration and preservation  was being argued vigorously there.
And they invited developers.
And i- the guys were re- oh look, there's no money in low income housing, you know, so it- That- that was their whole thing, we wanna make money, we have to make a living, and so.
The- and, and I think that that's-  that's what  what- what we're facing  with that.
I  quite honestly  I'm not so sanguine that  w-  we can really win that battle.
I think you have to fight it.
You know, you don't have an option.
But, I- I'm just a- Well, I just  uh I see- I see the  the developers  being rich enough to prevail.
You know  The.
The- That's what it really boils down to.
If it were up to me, I'd like to see r- quite frankly,  a mixture,  given all of these modern  co-op  type buildings going, And, given a hotel on every block from Essex  back up to Allen,  you know,  it's just ridiculous.
I would like to see  middle  to lower  income housing develop.
I- I think enough already  with this  upper income  enough already with the threats about gentrifying certain of the public housing.
Cause we know the city wants out of the public housing business.
I said, it's getting to be quite a miasma here  of-  of  this community  being  sort of  taken over, slowly but surely  by those persons who find it  in their best interest to work close to the financial district.
You know.
And  I say  that  be-  because-  For  a couple a hundred years now  this has been a real neighborhood.
You know.
And- and the people who have made it thus  should have some entitlement  for their progeny, for their children.
Their children ought to be able to-  to  to feel the vibrancy of the neighborhood when they walk through the streets here.
They- they should be able to feel like I belong here.
Uh.
I, you know  the  I think that the local residents  ought to have some  priority on a list that they develop but, I don't think it should  the- tha-  that should mean that  people of the same  income strata  should be precluded from having  to- moving into the neighborhood.
Do you know what I mean let's keep e- turning it over, that's fine, that's how it always has been.
You know.
But I think that  i- if there are locals who are really in need of housing an- and who are  deserving of the improved housing situation, give them some priority.
Tha- that's- that's not a problem.
You know.
Well,  That's something that's bothering me these days.
Uh, but I  you know  I- I can deal, I live in a building that's twenty one stories, and I hardly know it because it's not  So imposing, and it's right on the river, you know, The s-  Yeah, I live in the East River.
Um.
And I- but, I think that's high enough.
No.
No, no, no, na- I think it would, it would  change the character.
It would make us look like Hong Kong  or Tokyo.
Or- or even Beijing.
You know, all these  a- al-  different, well,  Malaysia, I mean I uh, I had an office in Tokyo for thirteen years, so I bummed around a lot in Southeast Asia.
And  A- And I'm always amazed at the kind of  o- of construction  that they've built.
But, that was a f- we- but the see uh- New York City has the same excuse.
Many of those  were built  because there isn't that much  space to build on.
So, everything went vertical  You know.
And there are all these incredible arguments going on  i- in this city right now for  air rights.
Uh, you're gonna fight somebody to-  about seven million dollars worth of air Is i- it doesn't even make sense.
Yeah.
But, but that's what's happ- That's what's happening Right?
Right, so.
No, I y- I- I - uh.
I.
Yeah.
I- I, what I think  I- I think  it's only gonna be resolved  in the same way that Harlem-  the Harlem situation has been resolved.
In that  the poor are really gonna lose.
You know.
They'll be just enough  y- you see, people who are in  in- in- who have power, prestige, or money  are very reluctant to give it up.
They'll control the distribution of it.
So, a few  will have access, but only a few.
You see.
Because they're g- the rationalization's gonna be  and- and  it'll be true in a lot of instances,  the- for some people,  is that  a person isn't gonna wanna pay a million and a half dollars for a condominium or a co-op  and live in the same building  with somebody  who  earns less than  thirty thousand dollars a year.
Well, that's a real snobbish kind of an attitude to have.
You know, as if money defines you  Well, in this country, it does.
In the world, it really does.
Uh.
You know.
E-  E- unless you're  in a country  where  there is a-  a more humane attitude toward you're fellow  men.
And that generally Doesn't  exist  these days  in  to  to great a degree  in America.
Cause you know.
The boundaries?
Well, actually,  i-  i- the Lower East Side  these days, goes from  I think Fourteenth Street down to  the Brooklyn Bridge.
Um, and from the East River, probably over to Broadway.
Okay.
Which is pretty wide.
Yeah.
A- a- as a- I do.
I personally I- I- I see that as East-  East Village.
And- and that's  it's not Lower East either.
You know  it's neither.
South of Houston.
E- And so, n- you've got all these appellations, you know, Noho and Soho and And everything else, and everybody's desperate to try to find a way to- to-  to  spike the value of real estate.
You know.
So.
I think it probably should be everybody who lives and works  within those boundaries.
Yeah.
Well, in New York, that's a very funny thing.
You know.
Um.
I- I think that-  that  the- the only definition that is universally applicable  is that you live there.
Okay.
But, a lot of people live  in what we call  New York style.
You know, and and it's very important.
Um in in other words, that means that I can s- you can- you and I can live on the same floor in an apartment building, and I'll acknowledge your presence in the morning, and  you know, say good morning, it's like  but I don't want anything to do with you  I don't wanna go in your apartment  unnecessarily, or you- have you in mine.
You know?
And- and- so tha- that's something that we've discovered here that's changed the character of ministry.
Okay.
Whereas before,  people who were doing ministry  you had access o-  you would just visit every Sunday after church, you would knock on doors, and  cadge your dinner or something, you know?
But, but now, um.
A person's home is really a sanctuary.
You know, it's where they go  to get away from the vicissitudes of-  of  the city and the neighborhood  in a lot of instances.
You know.
So, that's why I say,  l- people have adopted this whole thing of living for years  adjacent to somebody and not really knowing them well.
You know.
Which is okay, I- I- I don't see anything wrong with that.
But so- so that- but that does  in my judgement  create a definition of  who live- of the ne- who's in the neighborhood.
Just by virtue of presence.
Well.
You know, it's always been  a difficult thing.
So, you're starting with the fact that  the African American community was heterogeneous from s- let's just say  early nineteenth century.
Some were enslaved,  some were free,  some were very poor.
Most.
But, they were, for example,  the- they were  African Americans who owned  farmland.
Viable farmland  from Chatham Square up to Aster Place, along the Bowery.
They were- they owned businesses in the West Village, a- you know, in Greenwich Village and places like that.
And, a-  and so a- what- I guess what I'm saying is that they- they-  always run  the-  the whole  gamut of  this economic scale from enslaved to free, from poor to wealthy.
Okay.
The problem has been, and then, this is the problem for persons of color  almost everywhere.
Is that  and- and in a- in a  a neighborhood that's in a constant state of flux  like thes-  Lower East Side.
Is that the newer  residents  almost immediately  adopt,  as a defense mechanism,  all of the prejudices and biases that they find when they get here.
Okay.
So,  you have this peculiar thing  where you have  for example,  a dark skinned  Dominican Who definitely has  African blood.
You can tell by the shape of their hips.
It's steatopygic all the way.
You know.
Getting very offended if you tell 'em- if you  even s-  think that they're black.
They could be black n-  as ink.
But i- i- i- But, Right away, no no, I'm- I'm from Dominican Republic.
As i- as if that made a big difference.
You know.
Um.
But- but-  but that's what happens.
And so,  Wha- what- what  part of that,  is that their children  adopt a really negative attitude toward their peers who are African Americans and it sort of perpetuates  the whole thing.
For years on the Lower East Side, Allen Street  e-  and- was- it-  was the dividing line between  Chinese community, Hispanic community.
And both communities were fearful of crossing the l-  street to go into the other side.
Because of these attitudes  that they found when they got here that they adopted for defense mechanism that they helped to perpetuate by virtue of  behavior of the same manner.
So,  there, it's    African American community,  on the Lower East Side  is still  fighting  for its manhood just as African Americans have been in this country for four hundred years.
Do I see tension?
I  I th- I think  I- I think  somewhat l-  less  than say twenty,  twenty-five years ago.
Because younger people tend to be freer thinkers nowadays.
A- and so  there's-  you know,  there's a diminution of that.
Um,  but you still have their parents and their grandparents, you know,  who hang on to these old shibboleths, you know, they don't know  what to make of anything And so, they sort of perpetuate it.
Um.
Y- you can have, for example, young Asians  who have  African American friends whose grandparents  don't want in the house.
e- the- it's- So, it's- So I guess maybe we're a couple of decades away.
You know  You know, from a real sort of freedom in that respect, you know.
Yeah.
Well, look.
Ma- RD-NAME-2 RD-NAME-2 uh.
y- you know, the- they installed me in their people's hall of fame thing a couple of years ago.
Uh.
Every week, when I get to RD-WORK-4, I- I told RD-NAME-2 this not too long ago, I said  ow- I'm s- and I know RD-NAME-4 well.
you know, the lady that started the whole thing.
So,  I said, I'm so happy that you do this.
Because, what it has done for me,  in many instances  was reminded me of-  of several stories that were really important to me in my life.
You know.
But, the thi- the thing about Red Hook that  tha-  em-  uh- by the Todd Shipyard, I said I learned to swim off the docks down there in Todd Shipyard.
And then the thing about the  the-  the Empire Roller Ring, I said, you know, I threw a picket line around that place, I was sixteen years old because they wouldn't let African Americans  skate there then.
You know, so uh, I- I think.
Yeah.
But i- the places on the Lower East Side  that were important to me are gone.
y- you know, like, like the- the- um.
I can't even remember the name, um- me- the Kosher restaurants that used to be on Essex and Delancey A- and  a- and  and the um  the- the- Daily Forward Building is now an expensive co-op, you know.
Y- you know what I mean, t- that's is what mattered to me.
The stuff that's matteri-  matters to  I notice a lot of people who  maybe a decade of two younger than me here at the church that still exists, like  e- um.
What they call, Edges.
You know.
The  the uh,  the- that  group there on  East Broadway  across from the library.
Is  you know.
Uh, but  the- t- w- what's left is  Grand Street Settlement, Hendricks Street Settlement, the settlement houses because they go way back.
Um.
And they still do really good work.
Do you know what I mean?
And- and so they- they've become very important  the- the uh  n-  the incredible synagogue  network  that's here  on the Lower East Side that's  running into a lot of difficulty of late.
You know, trying to keep the buildings going.
That to me is really important  you know.
Um.
Because  they were so rich with history and- and stories and things of that sort.
Um.
They matter.
You know.
Um.
Aside from that,  it's really the parks.
The little pocket parks,  uh, and the large and small parks you know.
Tha-  the- the few trees The few trees that you have on the Lower East Side are really important to me.
You kn- you know.
Um.
Seward Park High School  i- is important  you know.
I think as an institution, that means a lot to a lot of people I know.
You know.
So,  the- the- the  I guess I've A- I think- I think the neighborhood is gonna really suffer, the character of it is gonna change because of gentrification, and if the economy falters,  any more,  it's gonna be a real disaster.
Because the people who have got all these high r-  high price, high rent things  are not gonna be really able to afford them,  and I don't know what that means because the owners of them are not gonna turn them over  you know, to people  of lesser wealth, I mean, uh, so.
I- I think this neighborhood is dangerously  um,  on the- one the edge of becoming  uh- a miles from s- something that we can't recognize easily.
You know.
It's re- To really understand I think  a-  I don't agree with that.
Because  It- i- the assumption is is that the past is going to be instructive  to the-  to the  present in some way.
In some way.
Um.
But, but to me, at least in New York,  the present and the future are always dramatically different than the past.
And so you, c- I can't even imagine, you know.
I mean, Coney Island is gone.
You know, the beach houses at Rockaway  are  gone.
Ta- Do you know what I mean, and what's gonna be this eh- eh-  it's not gonna be anything like what was.
A- and so, that's what I- I see that as A sort of.
Not at all.
I t- well, it's relevant from a historical point of view.
Of what.
You know, what a certain group of people  had to enjoy their lives and and so you make a comparison between they- the way they enjoy life and the way you enjoy life  and so you can have some sort of a, you know, thing about that but, as far as the- the- the development of a new neighborhood,  the past  in my judgement isn't really  that informative.
I- well I can't Okay.
Alright, please.