Two thousand and eight.
My whole name?
Yes I do.
it's RD-NAME-9  RD-NAME-1.
Yeah.
Well,  I was born in Bellevue Hospital.
February eighteenth, nineteen seventy-nine.
I believe it was a Thursday.
I'm just lying, I don't know.
I know though.
I- No, actually, it was a snow storm.
A very bad blizzard, and that it snowed three feet, and it was- it was hard because my mom couldn't get a ambulance to get her, so she had to get in the cab.
She thought I was gonna be a cab baby.
Like, thank God I wasn't.
Yeah, we made it to the hospital, so  and then there was me.
And um.
I was born and raised in Baruch Projects, RD-ADDRESS-8  Then we moved to RD-ADDRESS-8.
and um.
Mm-hm.
No problem.
And um.
A little bit about my family.
Well, my grandmother moved down here She's from North Carolina originally.
She moved up to Harlem  when she was seventeen.
She got married, had her kids and she decided she wanted to leave Harlem.
And she moved down here to Lower East Side.
When she first got down here, it was two buildings.
And there was marshland.
This is Baru- Baruch was two buildings.
And she told me that the um the demographics of the area were actually  Jewish, Chinese, and Italian.
Very little Latinos and very few blacks.
So.
And she said a funny joke.
I don't know if this is racist or not, but I wanna share it.
She said before the Chinese moved in, there was a lot cats.
And after they came in, there were no more cats.
So, then all of a sudden, there were a bunch of Chinese restaurants.
So, you know, she always tells me  don't eat at no Chinese food restaurants.
That's just my little funny joke to share with- from my grandma.
But my grandma had um seven children.
So.
It w- it was a crew of them.
And back in those days, when they were growing up, they moved here  for real.
I'm like  as teenagers.
Preteens, teenagers.
And at that time,  Grand Street was still around, but they had a lot of  like  community events happening.
Um.
There's  actually, in Baruch, it's something called The White House has been shut down forever, since I've ever known.
It used to be a pool.
It used to be after school prog- it used to be a center.
Community center.
Pool,  recreation,  um,  dance studios, all of that.
And they closed it down.
So, whatever.
I used to be scared  to death of that building.
Cause a lot of winos and drug addicts used to hang out over there and it got really dark at night, so.
We used to run past  the White House.
But, um.
I never thought I lived in the projects.
That might sound crazy.
But, I didn't think of it as that.
It was, um.
Was a- it was a  fantasy land.
I don't wanna say it like that.
Maybe that sounds corny too.
But I used to climb the trees.
My brother and I and my friends used to climb the trees, you know.
Play freeze tag, manhunt, all those type of games, we had  park, was a wonderful place.
Like, that was the place to be.
Like I  my mom used to send me to the store  for breakfast  and I would never come back.
I would stay out until like five o'clock with the milk, and the eggs, and the Clorox, and everything like that.
She's like where were you?
I was like, oh.
Uh.
I g- I go- I forgot something.
So.
It was so safe.
I mean it was safe, but at the same time if you- if you  if you- if you had negative behaviors, obviously, then  you know.
But,  My family, we weren't big  street people, like  there were some family members who hung- who hung out in the streets, who got involved in  some drugs, and gang stuff like that.
As a whole though, my family's a really holistic type family.
Really spiritual.
You know, I come from, um.
My grandmother's Jehovah's Witness, my mama's  b- I was raised a Muslim.
And at that time there were no Muslims out here.
Very few Muslims.
So, that was a struggle for me and my si- siblings.
You know, cause young, we were- I had scarves, and they would get pulled off, and everything like that, so it was a bit of culture shock, because like, inside the home, it was a total different atmosphere than once you stepped outside the doors.
In the sixti-  late seven- early s- late sixties, early seventies, she became Muslim, as well as my uncle.
She moved to um, Atlanta, then she moved to DC where she met my dad.
And,  that's how all of that went down.
So, my family were actually, uh Black Panthers a lot, very political activists, and um I mean, I'm talking about, they were  they were making incense in the  bathtub.
Like,  That's how serious it was.
My uncle was still a merchant, and he was actually he had one of the first  stores  on Avenue A.
Right across the street from Tompkins Square Park, he had a bookstore.
New World.
W- New World Trading.
So, you know.
Yes, I am.
I just, you know.
Got a l- got a little older, wanted to be a little more, yeah.
Wanted to be a little more- Do what I g- wanna do kind of thing.
But, my sib- my sister, you know, everybody else still covers their .
I just don't.
But, um.
Yeah.
Very unique, cause no- Yes.
I don't even know what you were gonna say, but.
Yes.
I mean, it was definitely a struggle, because  not only that, there weren't-  when I was growing up, there was a large population of Latinos.
Very large, and so.
It was Latino, Africa- very few, like, like when my mom was growing up, there were more African American families than there were when I was growing up.
The ones who stayed,  or the families that  I knew.
And um,  a lot of Latinos, and it was a struggle b- growing up as an African American young lady in the- in this neighborhood, because, you know.
Being accepted and things like that, and um.
At the- when I was younger, I had very long hair, extremely long hair.
You know, I just actually cut my hair like two weeks ago.
And so, RD-NAME-2 hasn't even seen it, so she's like gonna probably scream.
But, I had very long hair, so the Latino girls were like you know, and the black girls were like, so I kind of really didn't fit in, and I was kind of always really political myself.
I was a little  pro-black  I used to wear Malcolm X buttons, t-shirts, all of that, you know.
Cause of my family.
Cause influence from my family.
Exactly, so I was very- very, very, um.
Political in that way, very militant in that way, so.
I knew a lot of people were  couldn't grap-  didn't relate to me on that aspect.
You know what I mean?
But, I also danced.
The arts was a big thing for me, so in elementary school, I di- b- we were in Shakespearian plays, you know.
Thank God Ms.
RD-NAME-2  and Ms.
RD-NAME-3 actually believed in us.
Cause you know, she- we went all over the country touring.
You know, we did Midsummer Night's Dream at Henry Street Settlement.
So, my childhood, I wou- I would- I'd like to say I had a good childhood, I mean.
My father passed away.
That's the only thing I think  really effected my childhood, but other than that, I had a very good nucleus.
My mom was the best.
She actually worked here  for fifteen years.
But I think that's why I go- came into this work.
But, um.
Oh.
Yeah.
The park right across the- yeah.
Right next to my house, there was a park in front of my house, a park in the side of my house, and a park in the back of my house, and then we had the FDR Drive, hello.
Exactly.
And yeah, we had everywhere.
And we were very fortunate in that way.
I think.
But now, a lot of those parks are getting taken away from us, unfortunately.
Like, the big park where we used to frequent, Now, it's a football field, and it's reserved for Bard  Early College.
It's like, okay, that's all good  but,  you know.
What about the rest of the day when you guys aren't in session?
Like, the kids can't.
But, people u- um, use it, like I said, I don't live here anymore, so I don't know how many.
I don't know if people frequent  these places, I don't really know as  much as I did then.
But, I know when I grew up.
I got scars to prove it.
We used to run through everywhere.
It was.
And in the middle of Baruch, it's actually, um,  a shelter  called The Castle, they call it.
And um.
That was a big part of childhood too, because my mom was like, don't go over there to the shelter kids, th- The Castle kids, The Castle.
Cause, then they were like, very ostracized, but.
It turned out I m- I wound up marrying a Castle Kid.
Yeah.
So, they weren't that bad.
They weren't so bad.
But, there was um.
Just a whole racial tension with the Latinos, it was hard  fitting in, because  You know, basically.
Oh yeah.
Cause you he- cause it's a lot of things, like, as I grew up,  I l- I learned Spanish.
And you think they're saying something that's very derogatory when they say morena.
But they wasn't it's just how they were saying, so.
Of course you're gonna get defensive if you hear someone say,   morena.
In the tone, and it's like, who you talking about?
So.
Certain words, you can look for like, negrita, all of that, you know, so it was like what?
Are you talking about me?
Your mother's-  your mother looks like me.
Like, that was my thing, cause I knew my history because of my background, I was like  do you even know what Puerto Rico  k- what i- what Puerto Rico is made out of?
Who- who your ancestors were?
Do you?
You know.
Even some Dominicans, I just say, you know  slave ships stopped a- they stopped at- in Dominican Republic before they came to America, so.
I kind of think you're a little more African than me.
That always was a big, I mean, always had  very.
Used to call me Sister Souljah.
I used to school everybody about their-  their culture, like, what?
You don't know your people da, da, da, da, da.
So,  just me being that way  in this environment growing up,  was difficult, because, you know, kids my age didn't care about that kind of stuff.
I mean.
they're really, literally reading  Malcolm X at eight years old.
Who am I gonna talk to about that?
Like, am I gonna go talk to my friend Maria about Malcolm X?
No.
She would- we were playing, um, with the   little pony, My Little Pony, you know.
Cabbage Patch Kids.
Who's thinking about that?
Be thinking about gym.
We were thinking about  Thunder Cats.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Y- and I thank my mom for that because it opened my eyes about a thing- to a lot of things that I criti- I learned to be a critical thinker.
You know, and I wish other people had that.
But, I think being that my mom worked here,  she spread that  to  community residents.
So I'm thankful for that.
I'm thankful for that.
Mm-hm.
Put it this way, I grew up in crack era.
The Eighties was crack era.
You know.
So, of course it wa- of course it was violence.
Of course it was violence, of course there was drugs.
But,  I would say that  I didn't f- growing up,  talking school age.
I didn't see, I didn't, I didn't  pay attention to it, I guess.
I- cause I know it was there, you know.
Cause, you know, after a certain time, when the street lights come on, you go in the house because  they're gonna start shooting out.
Yeah.
Definitely.
I mean, when you- you're brought up in a situation where many people  consider at risk,  I mean, for you, it's not at risk.
It's your life.
So, it was like  no, I just have to f- wal- go around it.
Yeah.
Go around the obstacles, don't if you know, that in the big park at twelve o'clock, they having a gang meeting,  a Zulu Nation meeting,  you don't go  to the big park.
You go  around the big park.
You know what I'm saying, so.
I mean, it definitely was there, but as a teenager, yes, the-  the violence was there, because, I don't know.
For some reason, teenagers like to fight.
I don't know what it is about it, at that age, I don't know if it's the testosterone, I don't know what it is, but every day, there was a fight after school.
Every day.
Every day.
Every day there was a fight after school.
I wasn't a big fighter.
I was more of the peace maker, like  come on brothers and sisters,   we don't need to be doing this.
You know, I was more one of those, but.
Yeah, like come on.
We don't need to, what- What do you-  She don't want your man.
You know, I was the mediator.
So,  I think that  I needed to be that, because this didn't make sense to me.
To fight, like, it just didn't make sense to me.
If yo- if it's a life and death situation, yeah, I can understand it, but.
He stepped on your sneaker, wipe it off.
Like, that was my whole thing, you know what I mean.
But, growing up, I, when I got older, as I got older, junior high school, high school age,  of-  I noticed a lot more dru- cause a lot of people who I was hanging out with were selling drugs, and you know.
Smoking pot, smoking bud, smoking weed, or whatever, you know, drinking forties, you know.
And I never really played a part in it.
A lot of times, people say, oh you're just a goody-two-shoes.
I was called a goody two shoe.
And I didn't mind being called a goody two shoe.
I was like listen, I'm gonna wait until I'm re- for one thing, it was a religious thing for me.
So, I wasn't gonna do it anyway.
But then, for me, it was like, you know what?
For one thing, I don't have money be spending  on that.
You know, I could buy something else like clothes or cute  plin or- for my hair.
Or food.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, you're destroying yourself, and that's how I always.
It's funny, cause now, I'm older  you know, I have my social  life, I do what I do.
But, at the same time, when I was growing up, I really  didn't like to see  people do it.
I- I had-  All my friends hanging out, I didn't like to see them drinking, I didn't like to see them smoking.
Like, I was-  hit cigarette, like they would  if I was coming, oh,  put it out, RD-NAME-3's coming.
Kind of thing.
And then, it was cool.
But, you know, as I got older, I started partaking in  in smoking little bit of  cigarettes, drinking a little bit of liquor.
So they was like  RD-NAME-3?
Like, uh, yes, yes, RD-NAME-3 but I waited til I was twenty one, like you were supposed to.
Until I was really ready to deal with it, cause I look back, and I'm like, damn.
They must have had a lot of pain.
Yeah, but.
The whole- the whole thing is so I knew that, like  they had a lot of pain.
Like, a lot of people I grew up with, they had a lot of pain, that's why they did what they did.
In their family life, you know, they had a lot of addicts in their family, so you know.
They learned behaviors, you know, so.
Let's see, I went to RD-SCHOOL-4, RD-SCHOOL-5 I was in RD-SCHOOL-3  something that RD-NAME-2 was very jealous of, cause she was not in the smart class, and I was.
And I got skipped in RD-SCHOOL-8 from seventh to the ninth.
Mm-hm.
And then, um.
That don't mean anything girl.
Let me finish.
Then I went to RD-SCHOOL-6 for music and art.
Mm-hm.
RD-ADDRESS-4 No.
Even if she was there at the same time as I.
Yeah.
It's you have to think about it, it's  how many different majors?
It's vocal music, dance,  drama,  instrumental.
So, it's four different majors.
The school had like, eight, nine floors.
It took up a whole block, it had like a basement.
It had a huge theater.
It had two theaters.
It had two theaters, a elevator,  It was a big  school.
So, if I went to school with her, I wouldn't have known her anyway, unless she was a part of my crew.
And most of the time, tha- you stick to your friends who are in the same department.
So.
I did vocal music.
Mm-hm.
I was a singer.
Well, this is what they say.
But, you know.
So, yeah.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-4, after RD-SCHOOL-4, I went straight to City College.
Mm-hm.
And I actually took a long  break from it.
And I just graduated and got my BA this year.
So.
Sometimes, life happens and you gotta step- step back.
But, if I could redo it, I definitely wouldn't even think about the stuff I was thinking about, and I woulda just been thinking about school, but you know, what's done is done.
Hm?
Excuse me?
Oh.
Well, by degree was in Psychology.
Yes.
And it's strange, because  I- I didn't wanna do that.
I really didn't wanna   I did it because, I always ow-  cause at the time, I was going through my own little stuff, and I just wanted to learn and figure myself out.
So, I was like, let me take psychology, maybe I'll figure myself out.
But, I've- I've noticed that it's j- I've become over analytical, and.
It's, you know, it's- it has it's- a- it's a blessing and a curse.
You know what I mean.
When I first went to school, I wanted to go for film and video.
Camera- Film and video.
So.
But at the time,  they had like, all the professors were working, so all the classes were at like, nine o'clock in the evenings.
And it's in Harlem and at the time I was living in Brooklyn.
So, I was like, yeah, no.
I'm gonna drop that, and I'm gonna do this.
So, that's what happened with that.
It's crazy.
It's crazy.
I mean, I can't even I'm'a tell you when I knew.
The indication that I had that things were changing's when they started paving the streets, and when  Clinton Street  used to come this way.
It didn't come this way.
But that's w- you know, when they started doing stuff like that, I was like, uh-oh.
Yeah, they did, but you know, they always leave a little bit of crack in the-  in the ghetto.
You know, you hafta appease the kids and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean.
They neighborhood has changed so much to the point that the hou- the building that's right here on this corner,  is now  condominium lofts, I don't know.
Yeah.
Used to be the crack  house.
Like, you know what I mean?
All these, all these buildings along this street right here,  this whole strip.
Pitt Street actually was like  dope fiend  haven.
Forget crack.
It was dope fiend haven.
You could get any And it was like, you would see people leaning, like, you know.
To now, it's like tree lined and everything.
You know what I'm saying now, the street is actually, you can actually drive up the street without your car getting into the deepest pothole.
So, it's unfortunate that  they started  cleaning up the neighborhood  for the people who were coming in the neighborhood  opposed to cleaning up the neighborhood for the people actually live in the neighborhood.
But, a lot of people argument is, well, you know.
They don't take care of it, so they must not want it.
But if you don't have the  if you're not aware,  if you don't know,  then how yo- if you don't think you have the power,  cause the thing is this, people, i-  Baruch is one of the largest projects in-  in Manhattan.
In Manhattan, it may be the largest.
It might be the largest, I think it is.
It's huge, it's very big.
And  these people are coming from  all types of situations.
You know, some of 'em are just coming here, to America.
You know what I'm saying, so how do you expect people to  say, hey, I need my street light fixed if they don't know English.
Your- or, if they coming from a domestic violence situation, or tha- they got burnt out, I mean  people are coming from horrendous situations.
That's my- And the people who do know,  it's unfortunate that  people  know that  it's like, people's lives oversee  politics and it shouldn't be like that.
Because, your lives are, you know, directly affected by the politicians and the community board members and the  even the tenant patrol people.
You know, and And people don't go out to these meetings, people don't go  and make noise about, people don't say hey, I live here and I need this.
So, it went from mom and pop shops  to all these boutiques that no one here can even shop in.
You know, and it's like And I don't even wanna make it a race thing.
Because it's more of a  class thing.
More of a class thing.
And it's like, even you see African Americans who are moving  over here now,  they're totally like  disconnected  to  like.
Actually, dang, do I have it in my    I-  I'm actually doing a paper myself on- on my program on the need for community centers in- in low income areas.
And  and I would- looked up  Lower East Side, and it happened to be some type of a  blog or something.
And it was like, oh, the Lower East Side is nice, it's cool, people, if you're single,  you can hang out there, da da da da da da da, right.
And I'm thinking to myself, is this the same Lower East Side that I lived in?
Because no.
Like, you know what I mean?
Oh there's bars and clubs and.
The night life is- this is what the  this is what the email, the messages are saying,  and then one guy had the nerve to say  the only downfall is the projects.
It's kind of  it's kind of, um,  dangerous.
Or something to that effect.
It's kind of dangerous over there, but  um,  they just generally stay to themselves, it's kind of sad actually.
Like they kind of just made it seem like we were the goblins under the bridge.
You know,  And I'm like, well damn.
You know, and this is  I'm- maybe I shouldn't admit this, but  at one point, I started telling people the wrong directions.
They ask me for directions, I'm like, oh, where do you wanna go?
You wanna go to Orchard Street?
It's that way.
And I point right to the PJs and they're like, okay.
Like, thanks, I think.
Like, you know.
And then I see them ask somebody else, I'm like yeah, you better ask somebody else, cause I'm'a send you straight to where you're gonna get it.
You know, but I stopped doing that  cause of the young lady who got shot.
For me?
A- aspect of what it is, yeah.
I include the-  I include China Town and I include Little Italy.
Because I think it's, you know, if I could walk to it in fifteen minutes, I think that's the Lower East Side.
So,  I would say, from, like obviously all the housing projects along the whole    end of the Lower East Side.
Up into Smith,  so, that's like South Street Seaport.
Like, right before South Street Seaport.
All-  Yeah.
Brooklyn Bridge all the way up to maybe Fourteenth Street and  Third.
But people don't consider that.
People consider that the East Village.
That's what- That's uh, I think that's only because of the new people coming in cause w- I don't think- I think everybody.
I mean, people who are from here, maybe just from me, the East Village is just an extension of the Lower East Side, to me.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So, it's like.
Community means to me  the clinics,  that are in the area.
You know,  post offices You know, the stores, the people, the- the culture.
As many cultures as there are in the Lower East Side.
Cause there are  I can't even name.
You know what I'm saying, I can't even name.
I mean, I think that we are  in hist- in history, the Lower East Side has been a place for immigrants, for people to start off.
You know what I mean.
And I just that's what I think community- community is family.
Community is  I know your mother.
So, I'm'a tell her when I saw y- y- I saw you cutting.
That's community to me, just knowing  seeing the familiar faces that you've seen since you were a child.
You know what I mean.
That's community.
I feel like they are visiting.
I think they're visitors.
I think that in a couple of years, when they're ready to raise their children, or whatever the case may be, I think they're gonna move on up out of here.
Or,  the people who are here  are gonna be moved out.
The people who've been here, are gonna be moved out.
I definitely know there's a disconnection.
Once you hit Clinton Street, not even Clinton Street anymore.
Pitt Street.
Unfortunately, once you hit Pitt Street, it's a whole nother life.
It's a who- cause, I did a study with my, not a study, but my kids did a community survey on gentrification.
A lot of people didn't know what gentrification even was.
They didn't even know that they didn't even know that they were being affected by it.
But,  once you hit this street, right here,  the answers on this side were totally different than the answers on this side, obviously.
The people this side were like, what?
Yeah this community's going through gentrification.
Da da da da da.
On the other side, No, there's no- there's no gentrification.
Everything is great and you know, we go to- h- you wanna get a drink at the bar?
That  the mini bar that's on this block.
So, Y- no, you really.
It's really, it's mind-boggling.
Like, wha- Cause,  m- I told you, I lived in Brooklyn.
I live in the Bronx, it's like, even coming back from Brooklyn, when I was nineteen years old to come to  get a job at The Beacon, it was totally different then, and that was  and, dare I say it, that was ten years ago.
So, when the- within the last ten years,  forget these buildings going up, this blue building and all tha-  it was already changing before that.
And what people ou- don't realize is all of these things are in plans, in the works.
People have been planning this for the last fifteen to twenty years they wanted this cha-  rezoning and all of these things to happen.
This didn't just ho- happen over night.
And the thing is, people didn't get the signs when it was happening.
So, if the- is there a big difference between us and them?
Yes.
It's always gonna be a difference between the poor and the rich.
Always.
No matter where you are.
You could be in Lower East Side, you could be in Mississippi, you could be  in La- L- Los Angeles, you could be in Chicago, there's always gonna be  the low  and the rich.
The low class and the high class.
It's always gonna be there.
Coexist?
Come together?
The only way I think for them to- for us  to come together  is, um,  we have to have some type of common ground.
You know, and.
If people who live in the housing projects don't think they have anything in  common, or they think that the people who live in the condos are better than them,  they're not gonna even think to,  you know what I'm saying, try to come together.
You have people coming from two different walks of life.
And if hopefully, if we can make it- make a I don't know, we could have some type of conference or we could have just a town hall meeting or whole Lower East Side meeting and people come out and talk, Maybe, we could make moves toward that.
But, I just feel like there's gonna be a lot of tension  there.
You know what I mean.
Cause you have people who lived in the Lower East Side all their lives and and feel that the gentrification is  actually good for us, and you know.
But at the same time, for organizations like mine, like this organization here, we are getting budget cuts.
Because  they don't see the need anymore.
Because the income bracket has gone up.
So, if you got all these  and they're not counting all the people who still live  in the projects.
You know what I'm saying, who live in these tenement houses, who They're not counting them, they're counting all these people who live in that blue building who's paying fifteen thousand dollars a month or whatever they wanna pay.
People who have money  to do that.
They're coming f- they're coming- L- I mean,  so many of them, it's not- it's  it's not- that's not even, that's a understatement.
It's a understatement.
I- you- I- I'm sure you've hung out here  on a Friday night.
I've hung o- I k- I'll just walk through.
Going to th- t- on my way to the train station, it's flooded.
It's flooded.
People throwing up and Like.
My kid goes to school right here, and you're.
You know, one day, um RD-NAME-2 told me this one story that she um, was walking and some um,  some lady was walking her dog in the school yard on a school day.
You know, the dog is defecating, urinating Okay, it's like eleven o'clock, kids  go to recess, you know.
So, RD-NAME-2 started screaming at her.
Some other lady starts screaming at her, This poor woman is getting attacked, right.
She's like, I live here too, I live here too.
And oh, and RD-NAME-2 was like no, you're a visitor.
Cause you're not, cause if you had any sense that this was your neighborhood, I think that that's the issue.
They don't think of it as their neighborhood.
They think of it as their  hot s- this is the hot spot.
Oh, like- like the email stated that I just told you.
Oh, you can hang out if you're single, you can have a good time.
So what does that mean?
They're building up hotels too.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Ever.
Mm-hm.
They used to have carnivals there.
Hm.
Damn straight ain't another boutique.
But, um.
It's hard for me now, because I don't live here.
You know but.
A hospital.
Perhaps.
Because we don't have any hospitals in this immediate area.
You have to go up to Fourteenth Street, Sixteenth Street, or you have to go South to Beekman Hospital There's no hospital here.
So if somebody needs medical care.
That could be a hospital.
It's right off the bridge.
You know, but that might be a issue too because of the traffic.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Is it gonna be affordable housing?
Or is it gonna be another blue building?
Of course.
Of course.
Low income.
Mid income.
People who can, you know, people who work every day people who don't have  private jet services, people who don't have  you know,  Mercedes Benzes, like four of five of them, you know what I mean.
Working people.
People who live in the community so they don't have to co- people who moved out of the community because of necessity, because they couldn't find anything here, who work here, like myself.
I live all the way in East New York.
You know.
Cause I wasn't able to find um, housing over here.
And if I- and the housing that I did find was  above my income.
I would say mixed.
But we have to st- be careful with that because sometime,  those upper class  people get up in there and  a lot of times, when even when you apply for subsidized housing, it says only four units are available.
It should be reversed.
It should only be four units available for the upper income and more of the units available for low income.
For low income, I mean, I think I'm low income.
I have a job, I have a an- annual salary, but I still, I'm not making a thousand hundred thousand, million dollars a year either.
You know so.
Well, the building that's right on the same block, both of the build- all the buildings that are on the same block at least they're over fifteen stories.
The Seward Park Extension,  Yeah, they're over- they're over fifty, so, I wouldn't.
I wouldn't- I would say that  it doesn't make  sense that they're  above  the highest build- you know, highest floor.
It could.
If it's housing.
Not if it's a hotel.
We don't need that.
We don't need hotels.
We need housing.
So, if it's housing, yes.
Or housing for people who actually need it, yes.
Yeah.
But, at the same time, it might- it might perpetuate the whole  project mentality, or whatever the case may be.
So, it just depends on how high you go.
Like, maybe in my opinion, maybe no higher than ten flights.
You know what I mean, cause ten, that- that- that'll  do enough people, but it's not gonna be like You could see that building above all the buildings in the whole skyline, like you shouldn't  see.
Yeah.
Like that odd blue building.
Doesn't even- doesn't even look like it's sturdy, like I wouldn't wanna live there, cause I would think it gonna lean over or something.
Like, lean back.
For real, like, I'm good.
But no, housing, definitely.
But if it's for anything, any type of commercial business, anything like that, I don't think it's necessary.
Like if they decide to put a movie theater there or something like that, like we don't need another.
What you tryna blind us from what's really going on?
Like  give me what I need.
Don't give me what you think I want.
And don't give me what you think I need.
Give me what I need.
So, housing.
Definitely.
Hm.
Yes and no.
Cause I would think that a lot of the people who are moving in now,  I think, I guess they think they're starting over, it's- th- they're starting over for them.
You know what I mean.
But, if you're already coming from affluent families, if you already have money, you really  are just looking for different locations, where's hot.
You know.
It's not like  you just came off a boat  and  you left all your family behind, and you need to send them money.
You know, it's not the same type of situation.
So, I wouldn't say- if- I would say, if you're coming form a higher income bracket, this isn't a starting over place for you.
This is a starting over place for people who need to start over.
Who need a clean slate.
Who need that second chance.
You don't, if you don't need a second chance, then, you know, you're just here because the boutiques.
Don't get it.
They get shipped out to where I live in  East New York or Staton Island, or any other other  developments that they're building up now, the low income, by Bloomberg you know.
Or, if you notice, a lot of them in the Bronx and in East New York, Brooklyn.
Then, you know, they're never here.
And if they, when they are down here or something like that,  It's like I said before, it's four units for low income available, nine units i- a- available.
You know, so.
Mm-hm.
Definitely.
My kids, my participants don't know.
My participants don't know.
And I try to do my best to let them know, to educate them.
Because once you get  you get a sense of pride.
Like, really?
That happened here?
You know?
It's like it just connects you to your community even more, you're m- you're even more indebted because it's like wow.
All of this history came form  this- this project?
Really?
Like that used to happen here?
And I think that  if you don't know where you come from,  You know, you don't know where you're going.
You know, so it's like and you could take that with you, well, I'm from the I- I'm  proud when I say I'm from the Lower East Side.
When I was in high school, nobody even knew where the Lower East Side was.
You know how you say, ohh yeah, I live in the Lower East Side.
Where's that?
That's what I used to get.
I- and then I used to have to sing the song, Delancey Street .
But I- you know.
Slick Rick or whoever it was, but I can't remember.
So people knew where I was talking about.
Now everybody knows what Delancey Street is.
Now, everybody knows what Ou- Orchard Street is.
Now people google stores that are on Stanton and, you know what I mean, now it's like, oh you live in the Lower East Side?
Then, when I take them to the projects, they're like, oh, you live on the Lower East Side.
Like, no, I don't live over here.
My grandmother lives over here.
You know, so it's like that whole It's like that whole thing of  Now, the name is so hyped up that everybody wants to be out here.
Like why- why is it so hyped up?
Is it because of the people who are moving in now?
Or is it j-  or- or should it be hyped up because of the people who've been here?
The- the- the rich  the rich histories that we have here.
Like if you interview  any of the elderly people you see walking down the street, they're gonna give you a whole nother side of it.
You know, like my grandma, when she told me, oh, don't eat that, don't  I mean, that's serious.