Out there too.
You know, these people over here got very little patience for anything that they think that should be or should not be done or any time- time frame wise.
You know, let's not take a whole year to get something  this small, you know, uh- uh- uh, done.
You know,  but sometime when your hands are tied, based on finances or based on uh, situations going on,  sometime you may think this should be top priority but the town administration see that this is top priority.
And sometime people need just be more educated and sometime most of the g- people in this community if you just talk with them, and give 'em a chance to just get off some steam.
You'd be surprised what kind of results you get from it.
You know, people don't- in Princeville don't like to be kept in the dark.
You know they like to know what's going on.
And then don't- and don't make promises to 'em you can't keep.
You know, you can't keep it, don't make a promise it.
Brady?
No.
Okay.
Here for the basics.
Okay, cause I got to leave at five.
Yeah.
Mm.
Oh yeah.
Well it's a lot different from when I was growing up.
Uh- uh- uh- Um,  well,    there are more people.
There are more businesses.
There are uh, uh, they seem to be-  people seem to wanna move to Princeville instead of out of Princeville.
You know, so we- we are seeing  uh, a lot of new faces.
And you wouldn't think we would see that after a flood.
If you   the people that I never even seen before and uh- yeah.
They're actually a mix.
Yeah.
They're actually a mix.
You know, so when they rebuilt the apartment, gave the  old residents  first choice.
Uh, only half of them came back but it was filled instantly with new people.
You know so obviously they don't mind taking the chance.
You know so the -  To be in Princeville I guess is sort of a chance  to a certain level anyway.
You know, cause it's a uh-  with the  dyke being there and everything so it's always a chance.
But I think people like mingling with  their people.
You know, which has lot to do with it too cause you know your people.
And uh,  I know how he thinks, what he think, what he likes and everything, and they would just know everybody.
You know, they may stay just a half a mile outside of Princeville but we know everybody in Princeville.
You know everybody probably in E-  Edgecombe County.
You know?
So um,  it- it's- it's- it's culture.
You know.
It's- it's- I guess that goes back  you know, so when you- when you isolated then  you just got used to the isolation.
You know.
And I- I- I hope that the younger generation will change that, but  it's still there.
You know, and it's not that we're prejudiced against anything, it's just  culturally just here.
You know, it's just here.
Yeah, what's familiar to you and who familiar to you.
You know, so.
Um,  and that's the thing about that, so that- that  for how it is.
Oh yeah.
Mm-hm.
Probably very few people in Princeville I don't know either by name or face.
I don't know your name, I know your face.
Yeah.
Um,  most of 'em were moving back because they believe in  uh, it's- it's h- they s- use the term homeland.
They want just come back home to  You know, so uh,  uh, they knew the risk,  has been and c- and could be, but we just talking about  I live here.
It's like I guess sometime when a- when a teenager go off to college, he can leave home.
You know, it's just that  breaking away cycle.
You just couldn't break some of 'em away no matter what you do.
They wanted to- seem like just  die a resident of Princeville.
You know?
So their roots, they just they wanna be here.
And I think those are the one that see it as being such a very popular  community and  town, you know, and I think that's one of the reasons why they came back as well.
You know, cause you're still fighting for the same good thing they were fighting before .
So if you're right you're right, if you're wrong you're wrong.
There is no between in Princeville.
You know, this side or that side?
You know, there's no gray area.
You know?
Uh,  to just make sure that town will go on.
You know, if you don't like the way something's being done, you just- they rally- they will rally together.
So if you- if you're not right,  you gonna be  protested against, you're gonna be rallied against, you're gonna be ro- reported on if any- You know, you- if you're bad apple, it's gonna- that gonna bring it out of you.
Always been this way.
If you're a bad apple- uh, sometimes some bad apples stayed there longer than they should have, but uh uh-  time removed  those apples.
You know, so now,  uh, uh, things are-  are much much better.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Um,  well you have to cause there's nothing really in Princeville you know, to get directly involved with but um, um,  you know, so there was no factories here so you're automatically involved in other areas.
Of course you know, you don't have your own businesses, uh, to that  capacity, you know, to that so you know, we mingle with others and  um, uh,  on committees  across town.
Matter of fact, we got  volunteer firemens over here that are volunteer firemen in Tarboro.
You know, so we mingle  together you know.
To come together.
Mm-hm.
I work at RD-WORK-3 in Rocky Mount.
It's a- it's a distribution center.
Uh- RD-WORK-3 is a distribution center.
Have you seen that RD-WORK-5,  shop at home type thing.
Uh, that sort of thing.
I been there now three years when they first opened in this area.
Cause that's supposed to have been a hog plant but they-  that got so much negative publicity that they decided to put down the hog and- It was- people was worried about the smell um,  from the hog killing.
Inaudible.
Uh, but, you know, that was a big mess.
So and you know,  tabled it because so many people- and that's when really everybody rallied  you know, together.
Especially the people that stayed in that community.
And uh, the- the commission decided to put it on hold.
And that's when RD-WORK-3  uh, came here in its place.
You know, I mean it was-  I think a lot of people  was- was- that was for it because they just  saw it as more jobs coming.
But I don't think they saw maybe  were there any health  risk and whatnot and  according to the county,  there weren't any.
But it's just something about  hog  you know, just  you just think of the negative things about  hog.
You know  and that's not always the case.
You know, but you know, it- it  took away-  it took away jobs that I think RD-WORK-3 just took up.
Cause we didn't lose anything in that- in that aspect whatsoever.
Most people work around here either    at um,  the old Black and Decker which is the uh,  air conditioning- we call it air conditioning plant  uh, Sara Lee-  Sara Lee-  um, employs probably the- the biggest  crowd in Princeville period.
Sara Lee, that- I mean, that's- that's seem to be a household name around here, you know, Sara Lee.
They're in Tarboro.
Yeah, they're- they're right down the street, Sara Lee.
Yeah, so actually at the time it was name Black and Decker  uh, Sara Lee probably housed- you would probably ask every other employee in Princeville one of them work probably at that place.
You know it's very few that work outside of Tarboro Edgecombe County weren't that many in Princeville.
People weren't gonna drive but so far.
Over here you know, of course, you know, we uh, your educational level take you where the money is.
You know, and that kind of money wasn't  in this area right here, so.
Uh, you may have the background, but the money still weren't there for your education level.
So you had to go  Raleigh or Durham or somewhere like that to get your- your money worth.
Uh that in the beginning.
And that's  one of the probably the reason that um,  they wanted to have move to Prince- move out of Princeville, that's probably the reason why they're gone now.
Is cause of this  money wise, you know, level of i- of uh,  finances.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, the businesses here just weren't gonna pay you  on your salary.
You know, just not gonna pay that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They're paying- they're paying pretty good money.
Um, Sara Lee and uh, uh,  old Black and Deck- we call it old Black and Decker but it's AST I think now.
It's old Black and Decker Now it's a air conditioning plant.
They make air conditioning parts now- yeah EST.
So that housed  many many people in Princeville.
You probably  pretty much need a job Sara Lee or either that- w- where you going.
Pretty much so.
I didn't go there.
Uh, I was  sort of spoiled  and uh didn't have to work  for quite some time.
So I didn't know what it's like until I really got hired at  RD-WORK-3 what it was like to work in a plant.
You know, and so I don't have anything against it, but um,  uh,  I met new friends there but it's not- it's- it's no where I really wanna stay.
You know, but I like- it's okay.
You know,  so I've- I've had a-  a piece of  all types of living, you know, dealing with all types of people.
You know, cause I- um, I found some work  uh, for the  county jail for awhile, so I worked as a correction officer down there for awhile, so uh, it was uh, been a little bit of everything.
Go to school  school  and uh, uh,  so  went to high school a lot  so I was active in the community.
I'm a substitute teacher also and so pretty active.
You know, and- and- and  in good standing  in-  with the community.
You know, you have to be around here.
If you don't,  you- you won't  be long.
I can't right now.
Tell her just leave me her paging number or cell phone and I'll call her back.
Mm-hm.
It's one high school in the city limit but we have actually three, Tarboro High, North Edgecombe and Southwest.
And they are all rivalries.
Rivalries.
So when they play Edgecombe it just- you know, it- it- call out the- the  the Army.
You know.
You know and so if they involved you just call out the Army cause it's just  nobody wants to lose.
You know, and it brings such a big crowd.
You know, so nobody wants to lose.
Even though you still have people uh, most of your people are from these areas.
If your kids go to- you know go to school with 'em but  you wanna beat 'em.
You know.
You wanna beat 'em.
Yeah the high school sports.
You know, a big event around here.
Oh yeah, and  you talk about football  and uh, with those three teams every day.
Every day, either basketball football,  uh, basketball- I mean um,  baseball is on the rise now, so but mainly  football and basketball.
You gonna talk about that.
And you talking about sometimes fighting words but you kno-  Yeah, get pretty heated when you talking about those three schools.
You know, you can get- can get pretty heated.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-  Well RD-SCHOOL-4, you know, I- that's- that my favorite.
That's- that's my uh- I mean I'll do anything for any school, but of course that's my roots there.
Roots at RD-SCHOOL-3  Yeah, that's mine.
Oh yeah.
Uh, actually I video tape their games now for them- for them still.
You know  So I been doing that for the last three years.
And then so gets- get a little bit- it has its advantages cause get in the game for free and you get free coats and hats and t-shirts and things.
So it has some- some positive things about it, you know.
It- it- and like I said, people see you in good standing and then in good community you know, people actually  and that's good cause I never- I never smoked.
I don't drink.
And I- and I try to  on the bad- the wrong crowd.
You know, so that's- that just my goal.
Yeah, so I set a good example for the kids and especially you know, community.
And not just me- just- I'm just one of many.
You know, hopefully anyway, you know one of many.
Uh, we have- actually we do.
We have uh,  RD-NAME-4 who played for uh- Pittsburgh then he moved to uh, Tennessee.
Um, and we have RD-NAME-3 who won a Super Bowl with Washington Redskins.
We have RD-NAME-3 who played for the San Diego Chargers.
Uh,  We have um, um, same with baseball there a RD-NAME-3 back in those days um we have RD-NAME-3 who ran in the Olympics against RD-NAME-3 and only lost by like a  tenth of a second.
You know, so there is some- there is some talent here in- in Edgecombe County period.
You know and  um,  so we have some-  I mean you got  some of the greatest schools, you know, here  uh,  you're not the far away from.
We have Raleigh what, has State, Chapel Hill has Carolina, you know, Duke is really not that far so we're in a good  location  away from home.
ECU.
We done got some now at ECU.
You know, so uh, we have a lot of talent here in Edgecombe County.
Sometime it sad when they don't really  use it to their advantage.
You know I've seen some people draw pictures to me would- could be artists, but you know they don't pursue it.
You know, and- and we need more  leaders  to be able to come in and pursue  these kind of people to- to push 'em.
We don't- uh- it's sad to say but  I wouldn't wanna say it for the record but it just  we're not pushing our youth as hard as we should be pushing our youth to do- to bring out that talent.
Inaudible.
Cause it's there.
It's there.
I mean everybody wants to succeed even with good talent but but some will.
You know, and- and we need to push that hard.
That's what I would love to see.
Community push that- th- those youth hard.
But even our band is made up of  probably  fifty- to fifty five percent of people from Princeville.
You know, so you-  you communicate together at some point in time  how- like it or not.
You got to work together and communicate together.
You know?
See I would love to see that.