Yeah I could uh- I could throw a baseball harder  than any of my peers at that time.
And uh,  didn't know how to throw a curve,  but I would throw it so hard RD-NAME-1 that  it would  go up and down and the catcher would tell me, say,  are you putting anything on it?
I say,  no, I'm just throwing it straight over head.
He said, well man, ease up on it a little bit.
He said because it's- it's- it's- I said, I don't know what- maybe it's a fast ball.
And uh,  Coach RD-NAME-2  um,  who was- who would  turn out to be my first football coach, he saw the football ability  uh, in me because  during the weekend,  all of my cronies-  uh, Mrs.
uh RD-NAME-1 down here,  her-  her brother-  brother's  t- uh, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-1 uh, and RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-4 and RD-NAME-4,  aw man we would get together a- and get a football team up, and I just-  they just couldn't catch me.
And so, I- I- I was a r- running back.
I would become  the first running back in the family.
Excuse me.
You may to put that-  Okay.
No- RD-NAME-2 which is my older brother, and RD-NAME-1 which is RD-NAME-2- RD-NAME-2's oldest brother, and RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-3,  which is RD-NAME-4's oldest brother, they s- hung out together.
They were sort of a-  a little bit ahead of us.
But at the same time,  they were responsible   for us  and like, I was responsible for  my younger brother.
But um,  we- we would- we would play- play together.
We'd get- get out there with 'em.
And these guys would make the varsity team up at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Yeah you want some too?
Well uh, speaking of Coach RD-NAME-2    and uh-  I would say now the year is about fifty- nineteen fifty five.
Because RD-NAME-2 would graduate  that year they would win um,  state championship for double A ball playing.
And uh, h- h- wait.
He would graduate from high school and daddy at that time,  was commuting back and forth  from Newport News, Virginia.
He work in the ship yard.
And uh,  I- I- t- He mighta been getting tired and so he decided, he said he was gonna move the family  up  to Virginia.
I didn't wanna go  because  I was just coming into  ecstablishing myself as a running back.
I was being sought by Morgan State, and um,   it was two or three other colleges that Coach  tried to tell daddy.
He said, Mr RD-NAME-2,  y- y- can't you let him stay down here?
Can't he stay with somebody?
And uh,  he and daddy took a little short walk down into the path.
I- I guess they was talking about why he couldn't afford to- you know, I had to stay close to him.
But uh,  I didn't like it.
The idea of me  leaving here, but the rule would be July  of nineteen fifty six that we would pack up  and uh,  move to Virginia.
And  not knowing what fate would um-  would have in store,  I would move next door to um,  a very talented  group- family.
Um,  the RD-NAME-3, uh, they would be my first group.
that I would form a group.
Sixteen years old.
And I would start  uh, at RD-SCHOOL-2- RD-SCHOOL-2 High School and complete my uh,  eleventh and twelfth grade up there.
But um,  this is their sister.
This is- would be my first um-  my first group.
This is- this picture here is in-  is in RD-SCHOOL-2.
And this is RD-NAME-2.
Uh, and this is RD-NAME-3 and this is RD-NAME-3.
And this group was called  Chico-  I'm Chico and the Calypsoettes.
Uh-huh.
Yeah we would- Um,  musta been about    eighteen, seventeen, eighteen years old.
The Calypsoettes.
Yeah.
Belafonte had just came out  with  day oh.
Me say day oh.
And we used to-  used to do that.
But it was- it was- it was her brothers that would um-  that I would do s- do s- do some things with.
Uh,  when we were-  would hook up and- and blend and bond  and um,  write songs and sing.
And my first group  with them would be called the Swans.
And did you know that they would end up-  after I would take 'em to New York.
I bought me a fifty seven Chevrolet, and uh,  and Aunt RD-NAME-2 and Uncle RD-NAME-1  were up in New York at that time too.
But  they wanted to go,  and  to try out for the Apollo Theater.
Well my Uncle RD-NAME-1 had already filled me in  about Harlem, that it  um-  it was just a-  a rough place  to try to find your-  your stardom.
And um,  and at- Uncle RD-NAME-1 and Aunt RD-NAME-2 right, uh-huh.
Right.
No, he- he lived in- they lived in Brooklyn.
But uh,  these brothers were tryna tell, you know, tell us say, man we got to go the Apollo Theater.
And I was a little nervous anyway because  I had already seen  how um,  unethical and uncouth  we could be  culture-wise.
You know, as- for as wild and uh, just crazy, and I knew this-  that wont my cup of tea.
The way I was brought up, you know, and I said I want to sing, I said, but I don't wanna sing at the Apollo Theater, I said, because  I understand that if they don't like you,  you could be really singing.
I said they will have this guy to come out there with a-  a cane,  and pull it around your neck and pull you off stage.
And I say uh,  they just don't understand  my kind of singing, fellas.
And I said, but if y'all want to go over there and pay them dues, you go ahead on.
I say, I-  I ain't got to sing that bad.
Cause I was a ballad singer.
Smooth.
And uh,  back in the day, you know,  sm- being smooth wont too cool .
If you wont jumping up and screaming and swinging,  you just wont- you- they w- it wasn't anything that they wanna do.
And so I was r- a little  reluctant.
But I would still end up go- in- going in there singing.
Yeah, later on.
And uh,  but um,  they would write songs like um,  Thin Line Between Love and Hate?
You seen that movie yet?
Martin Lawrence.
Yeah.
And uh, you know, his roots are down here too.
Yeah.
Uh Mrs.
RD-NAME-4 was a RD-NAME-2 before she married Mr.
RD-NAME-1.
That's his aunt.
Yeah.
Well born- he mighta been born in Washington DC but her- his father um,  RD-NAME-4 is from down here.
Yeah- in Tarboro.
Princeville- Yeah, um- yeah- yep.
But uh,  Backfield in Motion is another song,  Money Money Money,  uh, Hypnotize.
So they would- they would  put out a lot of good stuff  in uh- Yeah my first group.
Yeah the Swans.
Uh-huh.
But uh, they're up-  they would- they would stay in New York in uh,  I'd come back   to Virginia  and uh,  continuously to go back and forth during the summer time to visit my aunt and uncle.
And uh,  while I would be up there,  I would be looking for jobs in- in Manhattan,  uh, trying to, you know, I wanted to stay in New York, but while I was staying with uncle RD-NAME-1 my job with him was to  polish  this lobby because he was the superintendent  of an eighteen story building.
And um,  keeping the- the tile,  the brass banisters and the mailboxes.
I would sing and um,  to myself.
And- Mm-hm.
D- in the building.
Right, uh-huh.
And  f- the- f-  one summer    on the third-  f-  I think it was-  took me- took me three days before I would be  actually discovered.
There was a Jewish lady Mrs.
RD-NAME-4  that was standing outside the building for two days she stayed in there in the next apartment building.
And she said that, um,  she just couldn't ha- had to come in.
So she said, excuse me.
I'm polishing and singing.
She said aren't you the uh, nephew of Uncle RD-NAME-1?
And Aunt RD-NAME-2 from North Carolina or Virginia?
I say, yes I am.
She said, well,  I wanna tell you one thing.
I've been listening to you  and you have the most melodious voice  that I've ever heard.
Have you ever thought about  singing professionally?
I told her, no ma'am I hadn't.
But I was lying.
I was hoping I was gonna be discovered just like that And uh  so she told me she say, I happen to know the publisher of the Platters.
How would you like to meet 'em?
And man,  I- I got of turned uh-  a backwards flip.
Said, the Platters?
And plus,  well- in my group, we had already been singing uh, some of their songs but I never had no  inkling of an idea that one day I would um,  get a chance to meet 'em.
And I would meet RD-NAME-2,  the bass singer,    o- over on the side, Tony Williams,  who was originally  Zola,  who w- had just got with the group.
And uh, Paul  and David.
Now,  David was sick at that time, and Herbie would tell me um,  that they was gonna be l- looking for some replacements later on.
Mm-hm.
Well the Platters would start  in nineteen fifty three.
I was a mere lad of thirteen down here in North Carolina.
Didn't know  what fate  had in store  but uh,  at first they started out, it was four of 'em.
Herbert Reed um,  Alex Hodge,  was it Cornell Gunther  and um, David.
David-  Now, Alex Hodge and Cornell Gunther would uh- would depart- Cornell would end up  with the Coasters, but Herbie would  pick up  Paul Robi  and  Tony and um,  and David.
David  Lynch.
And it was called- you know, would call themselves the four somethings, but  they couldn't get the harmony right.
But they were struggling and uh, trying their best to get it,  but they-  they c- just couldn't get it.
So um,  Buck Ram  was told about 'em.
They were introduced to Buck Ram by um,  um, Linda Hayes.
And  Buck would um,  start working with 'em,  and he also would be managing a group called the Penguins.
They only had one hit, Earth Angel, Would You Be Mine?
And um,  but Mercury Records had their eyes on  the Penguins  and the Platters would um,  sign finally with a group  called Federal Records out of Cincinnati Ohio.
And they would try to record Only You.
And Zola hadn't came in the group this time.
And RD-NAME-2 you should hear it.
I should play it for you sometime  when you come back with the video.
I'll play you the original  Only You.
Okay.
That version,  they would be tagged as the Flatters.
They sounded just that bad.
And so  getting back to Mercury Records  and their interest in the Penguins, Buck told 'em, he said well,  tell you what,  the only way you guys gonna get the Penguins,  you got to sign the Platters too.
And they said,  we don't want 'em.
They don't have it.
We- - We'd say  we just  ain't interested in 'em.
He said well, that's the only way you gonna get them Penguins.
And so sure enough, they reluctantly  signed the Platters  and by that time,  Zola  the secret weapon came into the group.
Rounded off the harmony, put it in a chord,  put the four parts in a chord,  full chord,  and they would redo  Only You.
And it was all over.
They forgot about the Penguins,  and started concentrating on them Platters.
Herbie tells me that uh, Only You  stayed on the billboard charts for seventeen weeks.
As a number one,  and it was beginning to decline.
And um,  Mercury Records president  would call Buck Rams and say,  we need another song and we need it right away.
Do you happen to have one?
Buck say yep,  I got the ideal song.
But he didn't.
What he would do though,  he would go back to the hotel and being on a ranger accomplisher ranger, he  would go in the bathroom  and in fifteen minutes  he would write  The Great Pretender.
And that-  they would hear that  and that would  almost outsell Only You.
And from then on man,  the Platters was on the road.
And uh,  I guess the lifestyle and success  in managing- trying to manage all of this-  this stardom,  was kind of hard for 'em because uh, as most groups,  you have your temptations and your weaknesses and your strengths  and uh, the industry is a very, uh, hectic  uh,  lifestyle if you don't have some-  some strengths.
And so uh, David,  his condition  apparently had worsened and so um, Herbie  would uh,  finally  call me  and- and tell me  you know, are you ready?
But up until that point I had been working with a group out of Newport News  as an understudy called the Five Keys.
Man.
The Five Keys.
I w- I-  You- you got to hear them too.
I got some of that stuff.
They would out sing  anybody.
The Five Key- Oo, man, I'm telling you.
Rudy West had a tenor  that was sweeter than Bill Kenny  of the Ink Spots and I was in his shadow.
He had a song that he would do um,  out of sight   out of mind .
Then the background would go,  doo woo   so the story   goes   you forgot   I exist .
I mean, man,  and so  when I- or when Herb first thing, he say,  can you do a lead something?
I said, well,  I say um-  He was testing me.
I say, I- I- I know background harmony cause I've been singing it all my life  I said but there's one song that uh, the Ink Spots had done  that- but Ram had  arranged for them.
And so  they were looking for a smooth  tenor.
And so I would do uh,  To Each His Own.
A rose must remain   with the sun and the rain   or its lovely promise won't come true .
I didn't get through  the song and Herbie say, you know the whole s- you know the whole thing?
I say yep.
I said I know that, said I got another.
He said, nope,  don't- don't need no more.
Don't need no more.
He said, I'll tell you what, we gonna send for you  to come up  to try out for the group.
He said because there are other- other guys bringing in people too.
He said but  I'm the man  that thought of the name The Platters  and me and Buck Ram are tight.
He said  so what I say-  He said I got some influence on the- And so   by the time, Mrs RD-NAME-1  had signed me up  as my man- as my manager.
She wasn't gonna l- you know, let this get away.
And um,  so sure enough that day-  it was in August  of nineteen sixty one, there they were- the- the Brill Building.
Broadway.
Sixteen-  fifteen sixteen Broadway.
think it was on the thirteenth floor, that publisher- at the Platters publisher's office.
Out in Virginia this time.
Mm-hm.
And um,  fifty guys  in there lined up  down the wall.
And I said mm.
I thought I was gonna walk in here and get this thing.
And um, so my manager she- she was with me.
She was a little nervous.
And she said you very-  very calm RD-NAME-2.
And she say,  I said, well I'm- I'm just concentrating.
I said but I'm alright.
She said have you decided what you gonna sing?
I say um,    I got two or three things um, that I would like to do but I don't know which one I'm gonna do.
She said you don't- you haven't planned which one you gonna do?
I said no ma'am.
I say  all of 'em were good.
And uh,  she said, mm.
She thought I was- should be nervous cause they was calling 'em in, call 'em in.
And  about forty ninth,  I'm getting a little-  I told her I said Miss RD-NAME-1 if they don't hurry up,  I said I'm gonna get upset.
She said well you w- you needa s- s- go down- She says it's too late if you go get a soda in here.
I said, I know, I'm okay.
I said but I been waiting here for awhile.
So sure enough  uh,  I'd come in there  and Buck Ram- this the first time I ever seen any half  uh,  glasses, they're on his nose  and he's on the piano.
And uh,  I walk up introduce myself  um,  originally from North Carolina and uh,  I'm- I'm gonna do um,  one of- one of three of these songs.
And I asked him which one he would like to hear.
And already knew that he had done My Prayer.
And plus the Platters had did it too.
And so I'm gonna sing one of their songs.
Everybody else was singing  James Brown, Jackie Wilson,  all rock.
And I s- and I had told her too, I say,  they don't know that the Platters ain't no rock and roll, they're classy.
So I would m- come into the- up to the mic and uh,  he said I have any sheet music?
I said no sir.
He said what key is- is it?
I said I don't know.
I said but I'm sure you know the song.