Well you better ask some questions cause I ain't know what to talk about.
Ask some questions.
Yeah.
No, I was just messing about the tub.
Yeah.
At um, yeah.
Harris Hospital.
Harris Hospital.
In Tarboro, yeah.
Yeah.
Whole twenty nine years.
God Almighty .
Yeah.
Yup.
No, I was lucky not to have her as a teacher.
Man, she don't play, boy.
No, she don't play.
Yeah.
She don't play.
She's tough.
Yeah.
His- I don't know.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, yeah, his um, s-  his dad mom was a teacher too.
Yeah, sure was.
Yup.
Yup.
Hm.
Mighta been long time ago now.
Uh,  yeah, when I was in middle school.
Uh, w- Miss RD-NAME-3.
She was my math teacher.
Yeah, that-  that was my teacher down there.
I liked her.
She was cool.
She was real cool.
I liked her.
Yeah I still her see her right now today.
Every time I see her we get to joking about when I was back in school.
Yeah, she was real cool.
Yeah, she still teaches at um-  Back then she was at Martin Middle.
I think she's just moved to Pattillo probably about a year ago.
I think last year she went to Pattillo.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
That's um, from-  It used to be from fourth-  fourth and fifth grade.
But I think it just-  What, RD-NAME-1, sixth grade now?
Pattillo.
Sixth and seventh?
What?
Fourth through sixth.
But then they got- At  Princeville, they used to be from pre K to  third, but they got  pre K to fourth  right there too, so it's kind of- Yeah, however they do it.
I think the ones that stay at Princeville area go  over here, and the ones stay in Tarboro go over there.
Yeah.
You end up over there, yeah.
Yeah, eventually.
Yup.
to- to Pattillo to Martin Middle, then to Tarboro H- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yup.
Yeah, my favorite teacher over there.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was good at math.
Yeah.
Math.
Yeah,  that's about it.
PE.
Yeah.
Yeah, my teacher there though.
No cause I- I- I went out for football and made the team, but it was too hot, man, so you know.
And it was hot.
I c- I couldn't hack it.
I wont stunting all that stuff there, so.
I ain't playing.
I really don't- I don't look at sports now, so- Yeah, I don't look at no sports.
No, I'm not a sports man.
Fire department.
H- That's all my time- That's the only thing I got, when I'm off it's-  I'm down here twenty four seven.
Yup.
Assistant chief, yup.
Yup.
Work at uh, RD-WORK-3.
Yeah.
The meat compan- Yeah.
Which Kelsey hate so much- Yeah.
They- they- they serve- They a distribution center.
They actually-  They don't pack food.
Whole lot of people think they  cut up meat and stuff, they don't.
They distribute food to um, different centers like  um, Burger King, Chick fil a.
You know, they just deliver food to 'em.
So the guys-  You know, they're- You just  put it on the pallet,  put it on the truck,  ship it to the store.
Yeah.
Pretty much.
Yeah, it's just a distribution center.
That's all.
Yeah.
Most people think you  cut up hogs and all that good stuff.
But back then, I think that's when they started- they- they had used to make  sausage from pigs or something like that, how you got started, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a very big company now.
No,  in the center I'm in,  it's only  one, two-  I think like two people  from Tarboro that work over there.
Yup, the rest of 'em is from um, Rocky Mount.
No-  Mun- Me,  from over here and got one guy from over Tarboro that work over there.
Yup, other than that, the rest of 'em from Rocky Mount.
Yup, sure is.
Yup.
Oh!
That's fine.
Yeah, I'm w-   It was alright.
It's alright.
Who?
I don't listen to a lot of rap.
No, I only listen to a lot of mellow stuff.
Mellow.
Yeah, old timer stuff.
You know, Roy C- I listen to old- Me and RD-NAME-2 listen to old stuff.
Yeah, I don't- I don't listen to a lot of rap.
That- that stuff there, man, is- You can't understand half the stuff they're saying, so I don't even- I don't even bother with it.
No, I don't listen to stuff.
N- No, I don't listen to no jazz but um, It was like um-  Help me out RD-NAME-2.
What kind of stuff we listen to?
Like- He know all that, I just be listening to 'em.
But Wasn't it like, Sir Charles and Yeah.
Oldies but goodies, you know- you know.
Slow stuff.
I can think then  Yeah.
I don't listen to a lot of rap and all that stuff, no.
Yeah, yeah.
I be .
Thank you.
It will keep me from having problems.
That what that is.
Yeah.
Platters?
Who the Platters?
Who is that?
Who is The Platters?
Yeah, I know him.
They- He be to  the town meetings all the time.
Light skinned guy right?
He was on- He was with them or something, right?
I knew he sing with a group.
I never knew what song he was singing.
Oh yeah, yeah, okay.
Okay, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Oh, okay.
You know who we talking about though, right?
The light skinned guy that be having a hat on all the time.
Little short guy.
You ain't never seen him?
I don't know cause- Yeah, yeah.
Sometime we'll kick back Marvin Gaye.
Yeah, stuff like that.
You know, yeah.
Yeah, stuff like that.
Earth Wind and Fire, them the men.
You know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There you go.
I know right.
No, w- I- We go in at uh, twelve  until  twelve-  I mean, over there you pretty much- you can pretty much set your own schedule.
I mean you can get ten hours.
But if-  if I got something to do,  you know, you just go in there, and  do what you got to do and go on, head on, leave or whatever, so you can pretty much set your own schedule.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, but time you got to be in there at twelve, you go in at twelve.
Yeah, and then go from there.
Not- normally I get off about ten thirty, eleven o'clock.
Yeah.
Like the other night,  Thurs- Well, I had to work- I'm off on Fridays and Saturdays, but this Friday I had to work, so Thursday I came in- I got off-  At ten thirty,  I came straight down here.
I probably stayed down here til about  two, two fifteen.
Put in some reports,  got some stuff together,  left him a couple sticky notes on his door of st- you know, stuff I need done.
And um,  then I went home,  and got up that morning,  went to work, and worked for a couple hours and got off at five,  came back down here  til about seven,  then uh, me and my wife went out to eat.
And um, then I got up again this morning eight thirty and came back down here,  check the equipment and stuff, so  it's work.
Fire Department.
You know, on the side.
Yeah, pretty much, and I try to do stuff when  you know, my wife and-  and- and- my s- my boys home asleep.
So, you know, they really don't miss me then cause they asleep.
So, that's where I try to do most of my stuff down here.
Yeah.
Yeah, where everybody else asleep I'm down here doing work.
Yeah.
A fireman.
Nothing, ain't know nothing.
<laugh< Didn't no nothing.
When the whistle blow I come.
Then he- then he sposta been a truck.
Yup.
Used to run- I seen times when we run down here.
Yeah.
And m- used to run down here.
Used to run down here and get left too.
Be mad.
No, well they were pulling off when I got here.
Yeah.
Yup, but back then we only had um-  But the trucks we got now- That new truck, we didn't have that truck, so you only had two people on the truck anyway, so first two people to get here,  that's who rolled out.
You know, but when I first joined, I don't think I didn't even have a car, so I actually stayed right over there, and we used to- I used to just run, run through the field,   come on down here.
Sometime the truck be going, the boy be waving at you.
We'll see you when we get back.
I be mad, be tired and everything else.
Be about to fall out.
Yup.
Yeah.
Then they gone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I used to stay in - When I first joined, I think I was  nineteen.
I um, used to stay in Piney Court.
I had apartment over there.
Yup.
Couple blocks away.
And it's a long way when you running though.
Yeah, a long way.
Yeah.
Over th- by thirty three.
Over on thirty three, yeah.
Back then it was-  I don't wanna come to date myself.
But um, I mean, it w- it w-  Back then, they- it- it was- it was-  i- I think everybody wanted to join the Fire Department back then.
It was action.
I mean you probably had- If you had thirty people on the roster, on the weekend, you had thirty firemans out here.
You know, uh,  you had thirty cars,  they taking turn in washing cars in the bay, you know, out here.
And cooking on the grill.
I mean it- it was fun, man.
It was fun.
You know, and then when you pass by, you see so many guys with like that brotherhood thing.
You know, so  you just like, man, I wanna be part of that, so and th- that's how it was.
I think when I first came I was  probably like seventeen.
I wasn't old enough.
And like, hey man, you- you ain't old enough, so you know, but I was coming down here.
They let me come down here and talk to 'em and sit down.
They would show me stuff or whatever, so when I got old enough    I was ready.
Yeah, I was ready.
And been here  every since.
Gah.
Yeah, it was- Man.
It was something else.
Cause back then, they had uh-  Used to be a house  sitting over there across the street over there, so they used to do shift-  Even though we're volunteer, they used to do shift, so us three might be on each shift.
You know, so I- You know we get off-  the day our day.
And we'll sit down here all day.
We get a call, we already here.
You know, w- they had beds over there.
You could sleep here over night.
They- kitchenette that- the whole nine.
Yeah, but it was volunteer, but they still had it.
Yup.
So  it was-  it was cool back then.
It was cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-  Coming up, huh?
Then- then I-  I-  Just to be honest.
I- I- This my thing, cause I- I- done-  I speak my mind of whatever I say, so back then  you had  leadership.
I mean you- not- not saying you don't have leader- We got leadership now, but  you had more then.
They was more involved and stuff.
Now, you know, it- a lot of people now- I- I really look at the word volunteer.
You know, and gas going up.
You know, ain't nobody getting paid, and these guys got to drive  their own personal vehicle from home  to here,  and if the trucks are gone, then they got to drive from  here  to wherever the call may be at.
And gas- Almost two dollars a gallon, and so you know, it's- it's kind of hard to- to get guys to come out  and drive in their  you know, cars and stuff to calls.
And- and then-  Y- Yeah.
And then- I mean people now- Don't nobody really wanna volunteer no more, so it's kind of hard to get people to volunteer.
You get people coming in after application.
Hey, you know,  volunteer-  Don't get paid?
Alright, I'll bring your application back.
You don't never see them no more.
So it- it- it's kind of hard, you know.
But  you know, eventually hopefully-  hopefully- Cause me and him been discussing  you know,  tryna figure out some way where we can  you know, start paying these guys  even if it's like,  five dollars a call.
You know, something to try to help out with gas.
I mean,  thirty, forty dollars at the end of the month is better than no money at all.
You know, so I mean that'll be something good to do.
So we- we working on it.
We working on it.
Yeah, you know.
Cause I- I  know-  I understand that gas hot, man.
Like me,  I don't have to burn my own gas, I got a car so you know, me and the chief got a car, so we don't have to burn our gas.
But I do understand these guys got to burn their gas, so Yup.
Well,  no.
I- I-  My f-  I went from fireman  to assistant chief.
Yeah.
Yeah.
M- What?
Give and take.
Um,  I don't know, man.
What?
I don't know.
Cause I- I- I- If it's- I would s-  I w- Uh,  couple years ago I became assistant chief.
Yeah.
Then I resigned  for like two years, and then I came back.
When I came back,  I came back as assistant chief, and pretty much been here ever since, pretty much.
Yup.
You got to.
I mean cause you know you ain't gonna get paid.
You know, you know you ain't gonna get paid, so  my- my- my thing is- I reckon the way to look at it is  I do this  for free,  but in the long run, I get blessed though.
You know?
I mean,  it can be anything.
I mean  just you know,  a- anything, you know what I'm saying?
I mean, if it ain't nothing but a person just  come up to you or just bring the car up by saying, you know, thanks for coming to this call, or whatever.
That mean something.
You know what I'm saying?
Just to let you know that you helped the people out and stuff like that, so.
And then the kids man, it's-  You know, it's just-  You know, that- that's my thing.
You know, d- going to the schools, talking to the kids, taking the trucks out there, wearing them down and everything.
It's- It works for m- It's worth it sometime.
What's that?
What?
What you mean?
I don't know- I don't know what you talking- This off the record.
What you talking about?
Oh.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I was- I'm a funny guy.
I'm a funny guy when I want to be.
When I want to be.
Yeah, I'm- I'm something else.
But when I come down here, I'm-  I'm business.
I'm strictly business though.
And that's the way you got to be though.
That's- that's- in it- that's like-  You know, you- you hang out, you do what you got to do, but when you go to work, you got to be business minded.
You got to do your job, so.
Yeah, we-  we got a wild side cause every- where- where I go, he go.
Where he go, I go.
Especially when we off, so.
We both wild.
We both wild.
Yeah, so.
Mm, well- Sit back and drink a couple beers, that's about it.
You know, sit back and drink a couple beers, and some- Hey, I can tell them.
I'm telling the truth.
I'm telling the truth.
And um,  you know,  some- most times we go and play Dominoes.
You know, yeah.
I didn't know how to play, but  they taught me, so at every game, I be a winner every since, so.
It ain't luck.
They say it's luck, but it ain't luck, you know.
There you go.
Other than that,  man, that- that's it.
Yeah.
When we have free time.
We really don't have that much free time, so.
N- not really.
Because, like I said, when I ain't at work, I'm down here so  not really.
Not really.
Oh, I don't think so.
Nah- I- I- I-  Well, I don't know.
N- I won't say- I won't say- No, no.
Because I was  kind of like a s-  you know, in class, self person.
I really didn't do a lot of talking.
I think teachers thought something wrong with me too cause I didn't- I didn't do a lot of talking.
I just sit back and look at her like, whatever, you know.
Do what you got to do.
I do what I got to do, and then go on about my business, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was alright.
I was alright.
But- Well,  no, college never crossed my mind.
I was thinking about going military at one time, but think when my son  was born, I kind of changed a lot of stuff.
Cause  when I  did leave high school, I went to Virginia,  and then  I was coming back and forth.
And my oldest son was born, I just  move back and-  shit I been working at RD-WORK-3 for-  What?
Going on eight years now, so.
You know, pretty much from high school,  I probably worked  two jobs  other than where I'm at now.
You know, I didn't like 'em so, if I don't like it, I move on.
Then I went to RD-WORK-3.
That's where I've been at ever since.
Yeah.
Nine.
Yes, so- Four boys.
Yes.
Yeah, I was wild in a way.
Four boys.
Hey, hey.
Hey, hey.
A-  H- he got- Ay.
You just don't know about all of 'em.
Yeah, four boys.
Four boys.
But that's alright, though.
It's good to go.
Nine.
Eight.
Three years old now, and a six year old.
Three.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All of 'em, except the three year old.
He ain't in school right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Me and my wife.
In  December  of  ninety nine.
Yeah, December ninety nine.
Yeah, ninety nine.
RD-NAME-5.
Yeah.
In Princeville.
Yup.
And P- No.
Matter of fact, we didn't go to school together.
Nah, one of um-  I met her through a friend guy.
Yup.
And  just  kicked it off since.
Yeah.
So.
No.
Uh-uh.
She's um, twenty seven.
She twenty seven.
I'm twenty nine, so.
Uh,  Southwest.
Yeah, ca- So she was from Pinetops.
Yeah.
Southwest.
Yeah, when um, she finished school, she- Actually she moved over here in Princeville with her cousin, and they were staying together.
That's when I met her.
Uh.
Well,  yeah,  but  no.
It's all depends on how you raise 'em.
You know, so I mean it could be a lot of work.
I mean probably when they get older, it'll be a more-  more to it but they be getting into this and getting into that.
But right now, I don't- I don't have too many problem.
I don't- When I  tell 'em to do something, they pretty much do it.
Yeah.
Ain't no dinner, no play.
Oh, not really cause  you know, I- I- I don't let 'em go too many places, so  like where I stay, you tell me it's my sister, my mom, then it's me.
And it's all us right here.
And- and my sister got three boys, so you know,  they'll pretty much  play together.
You know, they got trampoline out there.
They got  s-  The um,  swing or whatever they need, so- And they got three yards combined together, so they want to ride a bike or whatever, they just do it right there, so.
I, you know, don't let 'em go nowhere.
They got a Playstation, whatever they needed-  You know, whatever they need, they got, so.
I don't let 'em mingle with too many  other kids  cause that's when they start getting you know, the wrong ideas and bad influence.
So you keep 'em away from them,  I ain't got to worry about it pretty much.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hm.
It was good  but-  I mean it was good cause my mom raised  me and my sister.
And my dad wasn't there, so.
But as far as  on my mom behalf, it was- it was good.
You know, for her being a single parent and working,  it w- it was-  it was okay.
It was great.
She worked in- at En-  RD-WORK-4.
That's where everybody worked at.
At- Yeah.
RD-NAME-2!
Get that.
Yeah.
At RD-WORK-4, that's where everybody worked at, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, my sister older than me.
Yeah.
She's thirty five.
Yeah.
She thirty five.
Yeah.
RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2.
Yeah, RD-NAME-2- She married now, RD-NAME-3.
Yeah.
No, I wasn't- tryna-  Okay.
Say what now?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
My mom parents uh- Well my- my mom dad was  passed before I was born.
So I never see- I never met him, but my grandma just passed  uh,  this May.
Make a year,  she just passed.
My grandma just passed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, no.
But, I mean other than-  E- Just like everybody else, worked on a farm.
You know, pretty much worked on a farm,  go to school, get out of school,  go work on the farm.
That's pretty much what they had to do and  you know, back then, you-  Back then, most people-  I- If you look at older people back then,  probably got anywhere from nine to  twelve, thirteen kids.
But the kids was the-  the- the- the-  the money maker.
You know, back then, you know, you- you had- The more kids you had, the more money you bring in your household.
You know, that's the way it was cause you had more kids out there working in the field, so.
Um,  my grandma used to-  I don't think she r- I was finna say she didn't really never worked in the field.
She used to work  you know, in the house, you know, keeping stuff situated.
And kids get out school, go in the field.
Sometime they had to s-  miss school.
The- They work in the field all day, so and my-  Um, they say my granddad, he worked on a farm too so pretty much.
That's- Yeah.
Pretty much, just how it was.
U- I-  No, I- I don't-  really don't know what farm it was.
Mm.
No, but she never had no license.
She never drove.
All her years, she never drove.
I- I can't understand how a person do that, but she never had a license.
Never.
Out of all the years she was here, she never had a license, never drove  a car.
Um,  not really.
Other than that, I had a aunt that was  scared of tobacco worms.
Yeah, she worked tobacco.
She was scared of tobacco worms.
They used to put 'em on her all the time.
And I had another aunt that was scared of uh, chickens!
I ain't never understood that.
But yeah, she was- she was scared of chickens so um,  that's- that's pretty much about it.
Uh- Uh- Yeah.
And I had another aunt that used to  beat up my brother all the time.
They say she was tough, boy.
Yeah, she was- she was a woman, but she was the baddest thing out of thirteen of 'em.
Yeah.
Uh, twelve.
Twelve.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was thirteen of 'em in all.
Two-  thirteen.
Yeah.
Um,  one, two-  two of my uncles they moved to Virginia.
Uh,  one of my uncle moved to Maryland.
And  one of my aunts  moved to New Jersey.
The rest of 'em st-  stayed right- right here in the area.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, we just- My family just had a um- Mother's Day, we had a  um,  family themed Mother's Day.
You know, since my grandma had passed, and we did something- Something we gonna start doing every year, so yeah.
We pretty much stay together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What is going on man?
Yeah.
Uh, I ain't do too much.
My ma used to  keep me  in the house.
I- I didn't really- I didn't- I didn't hang out that much cause  um,  like I said, it was just me, my mom, my sister, so when- She was working second shift,  so we used to go down to our aunt house,  and  she usually keep us, you know,  while my mom was at work.
And she had two boys, so um,  my cousin and them, we used to just play with them in the yard pretty much.
Yeah.
Th- They didn't let us go out and mingle too much.
Yeah.
Uh, Not I can recall.
No.
Like I said, she was a single parent, so not that I can recall.
No.
Mm.
Well, I would just- I was  very curious back then.
I'd take something apart and put it back together or you know,  back then I remember- I remember when back then  we didn't have no phone.
So I got creative and went to the phone box, and I said, I know.
Back then, you know, I wanna talk to a girl, so I got to figure out how I can talk to the girls so we had a phone box.
And you know, the phone box used to be on the ground in a box.
So I went out there- I actually looked and-  looked at the wires, and  they were color coded.
And then  every wire had  the address on the wire, you know, to see which house it go to.
So I'm looking at mines, and I'm looking at the neighbors.
So I take our color wires and put 'em together with their's, and tied it until  so we had a phone.
And- and- and I used to do it every day my mom go to work, And I used to tell my sister, now, you know, you know Mom, you know.
That was when we had got old enough to start staying at home.
You know, you know when she get home, we got to take the phone down.
You know, to unplug the phone.
And um, if the phone ring,  we knew not to answer.
Cause it wont for us anyway, it was the next door neighbor, you know.
And I used to tell her, you know, if you get on the phone, and you hear body pick up the phone, you know,  tell your friend, automatic- Just hang up.
You know, and let them use it, you know, cause it was their phone.
And we'll pick up the phone, they be on the phone, we hang it up.
You know, and we pick it up and get a dial tone, and we'll do what we had to do or whatever.
Until one day, my mom got off work and the phone rung.
She like, now I know we ain't got no phone, you know.
Why the phone ringing?
I was like, man, there's a ghost in this house somewhere.
But I got caught.
No, she didn't know.
Yeah, yeah.
She didn't know.
Yeah.
Yeah, but I had to figure out something.
And hey, hey.
We had a phone for- for a couple of- for awhile.
Hey, I- I- I was- Hey, Cable, please don't come get me.
Cable.
Hey man.
I'd look at the wires, cause back then they ran a wire to everybody house, but they might not hooked it up.
Shoot.
My mom would go to work, boy I had Cable.
Yeah.
My mom get off, I had to disconnect the Cable, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I kept it for a long time, til the phone rung.
My sister forgot to unplug the phone.
Yeah,  I'll never forget that though.
Yeah.
Yeah, pick up, we automatically knew to hang up.
They wanted to use their phone, so we hang up.
I mean, hey.
No, they never knew.
They never- I mean, they didn't know.
They sure didn't.
So we- soon they pick up, we just like  hang up the phone.
The other person already knew to hang up the phone.
If somebody pick up the phone, just hang it up.
Hang up the phone.
I'll call you back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure did.
Shoot, I  probably no more about-  about twelve.
About twelve, thirteen years old.
Sure was.
Yeah.
Man, and  back then, ain't had too much to do.
You think of anything, back then, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure did.
I never forget that.
No,  I really didn't get in a lot of trouble.
I was the-  When- when my sister got old enough,  if she wanted to go somewhere, my mom would send me.
I- I was a mama boy.
I actually tell her everything.
So I ain't- I ain't- I ain't get in trouble.
I used to tell her everything.
Yeah, and she couldn't do nothing.
She couldn't move unless I was with her.
So.
Yeah.
Yeah, Ma used to send me with her.
You wanna go over your friend house?
Take your brother.
Yeah.
That's how it was.
Yeah.
Hey, man.
No.
I mean as far as like fixing stuff around the house?
Yeah, I uh, s- something like that- Yeah, I mean if something broke, I'll fix it.
You know, but  as far as  going to school for it or something like that,  nah, I never-  I never thought about it.
I mean, y- the basics.
Yeah, the basics.
You know, or if it's something I ain't never did,  you know, me and him will get together.
We tear it down.
We'll put it back though.
Yeah, it might take awhile, but we'll put it back.
Yeah.
Yeah, keep from spending money.
Sometime getting tight, man.
Stuff getting rough.
RD-NAME-2.
Phone.
Yeah.
Who is that?
What number?
Okay.
Well yeah.
I mean-  I mean you look at  newspaper- the news.
You know, two guys just got killed the other day.
You know, at the club.
You know, in Conetoe.
But- but- but they were from-  The two guys were from Tarboro.
And, you know, the one guy they locked up,  I don't know if he did it or not, but you know, he- he stayed in Princeville.
Uh,  I mean  back then we didn't have to worry about that.
You know, back then- I mean it was times where we had to meet up, but we fought-  It wont no guns or knives then.
We fought fist to fist, hand to hand, but now  them guys don't- They don't even know what a fist is.
They wanna shoot and kill.
Just- you know, now you just got to watch yourself.
You know, it's- it's-  it's kind of bad now.
It's a shame to see it, but it's kind of- kind of tough.
Just slowly over time, pretty much.
Yeah.
Yeah,  um,  yeah.
A wh- It's more people in Princeville now from Scotland Neck.
Yeah.
Because I think they got flooded, and then they- I think just- You know, they just came this way, so you got- you got a lot of people from- from Scotland Neck down this way.
Yeah, and then you got-  You know, a lot of people that was here, left and went to Rocky Mount  because when it got flooded,  they  might, maybe got apartment or house over there.
So they just didn't come back, so yeah.
Pretty much.
Well.
As far as people leaving?
Well,  yeah, you know, with the flood, you're- you're- you got- Yeah, the flood kind of hurted people- It helped some people.
You know, some people that were living- that didn't have homes,  got homes.
Some people that had homes that were paid for  now got bills  that they didn't have then, so you know, in a way  it- it helped some people, but  it hurted some people.
You know, and- You know, just like with the town, back then you had you know, the whole police squad.
Now you only got  two police officers.
You know, so-  You know because the money is just not there- the people is not here, and their-  You know,  their taxes and all that- You know, about an-  It's not that many people here.
You got less tax money coming into the town, so you can't hire more police officers, more  public works and stuff like that, so.
It- it kind of hurt the town in a way.
It- it hurt the town, but it been the oldest  black town  you know,  in history, so if you know how to use it, it can help the town, though.
You know, because you got people that w- be- and grants and money that's out there that you can  get  by being the oldest black town that- which,  you know, by it was flooded.
You know, so  you know- if you- if you-  you got the right people in the right position, they can  really help the town.
You know, just got to be willing to go out there and get it.
Hm.
Man.
Probably-    Shit, I was probably about  in my early twenties.
Probably.
Yeah.
You know, it ain't- You know, it ain't nothing that you learn in school, you know?
You know, you- you- you have history class,  but it ain't about   your c- your town, you know?
Yeah, you know, you got history right here, but you won't read it in a book, though.
You know, so  you know, it- you don't-  you don't really-  You know, unless somebody tell you, you won't- you won't learn it in school.
You know, you won't learn it in school, so.
Yeah.
Probably about my early twenties, so.
Yeah, people- Yeah, the- they- Nah.
Nah.
No.
I mean, to be honest, no.
I mean ya- I don't think so.
Probably something I just  picked up on my own.
You know, listening to people just talking and- and so far and so,  you know, it ain't nothing that nobody just sat down and say, hey, you know, this the oldest black town.
Nah.
Was that after the flood, RD-NAME-2?
The oldest black  town, the sign they put up.
Was that like,  after  the flood?
When they put that up?
The history  sign and stuff?
Yeah.
I need you to do me a favor too.
Chop that.
One second.
Mm.
That's probably about  mm-    probably a good forty miles away from here.
Yeah.
They get- Some of them- Some part of them got flooded and- and I think um,  like the apartments complex and stuff  got  built back before they did, and they just moved this way, you know.
Well, Is it rough now?
No y- more balance.
You know, it- it- it really you know,  um-  You know, like I was saying about the guys got killed and stuff, so it's- You know.
Yeah, than it used to be.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, that you normally wouldn't hear it or whatever.
Yeah.
It's a little-  little worse than what it was back then.
Yes.
Yeah.
That- That's  pretty much- Like now,  you know, just- just like the other day,  um,  one of the guys from over here in Princeville,  went to Tarboro  to wash his car.
They jumped on him.
You know, just because he was from- You know that- that  bridge should be torn-  I can't understand how- And the only thing separ- separating Princeville and Tarboro  is  a bridge.
And that b- that bridge is-  God Almighty.
You wouldn't believe, you know.
It- it's terrible.
You know, because-  I mean it's- it's- it's so bad where  Princeville and Tarboro  and even people in high school- When I was in school, they didn't have police officers at school.
Now, they got a police office at school every single day now.
Because you got Princeville and you got Tarboro and they just don't get along.
And you ask me why,  I can't tell you.
I mean I don't understand it.
You know, it's- I mean,  shouldn't no town  have problems with animosity against each other, but  it seem like  they should be  together  if it's them against Rocky Mount or something.
You see what I'm saying?
But for them to be-  What?
A good fifty feet away from each other across the water?
Is-    It's ridiculous.
It's ridiculous.
I mean you got people that stay over here that really truly  don't go to East Tarboro.
Because they gonna- they gonna- they gonna have to fight.
And you got people over there that don't  come over here.
They gonna have to fight.
Yeah.
It's- it's- it's-  it's ridiculous.
Yeah.
It's ridiculous.
I ain't have the slightest idea.
When I was in school,   we didn't have that problem.
No, it- it wasn't like that.
I mean everybody hung together.
Most of my friends from over Tarboro.
You know, so  I ain't have the slightest idea.
Man, I don't even try to find out.
You know, cause I ain't even tryna get in the middle of it, so.
You know I j- I stay out of it.
Yeah?
Yeah, I mean you might have it, but it's terri- I mean, it's bad now though.
Yeah, it's bad.
I mean you always gonna have  you know, y- your little group here and your little group here, but  it's to the point now where you know, we better not even catch you over here.
Or we gonna fight.
Yeah.
It's- it's terrible.
Oh they know.
Yeah, they know man.
They know.
Yeah, that's why they keep police officers out there.
You know.
At Tarboro High, they keep a police officer out there  every single day.
Over?
Just fighting all the time.
Just-   fighting.
Yeah.
No cause it's like more of a younger crowd, so not really.
Yeah.
Guys I grew up with, they pretty much-  I go over there.
I ain't have no problem out of 'em.
You know?
Older guys,  that's over there come over here, you have- You know, the older guys, we really don't have that much  problem with 'em.
But it's just the young guys, the guys that's in school- high school now, pretty much.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, you got a couple guys that  you know, might be finished school that still act what I say childish.
You know, that hang with the youngest guys, so instead of them  trying to tell them not to-  you know, they  influence 'em to do s- You know.
But I try to stay away from that stuff.
Cause I want to be able walk anywhere and ain't got to watch my back.
Pretty much.
Describe racial.
I ai- I'm not gonna say Yeah, that's what I'm gonna- I'm not gonna say- I'm not gonna pecifically say Tarboro, I'm'a say North Carolina itself i- is still  quote unquote  in-  set in that racial-  You know, it- it's still there.
You know, I mean just like if you go to Virginia, you go to New York, you know, uh-  Me and- What's your name?
RD-NAME-2,  might be a couple, and we can go anywhere we wanna go and don't have no problem.
But uh,  in North Carolina, you take me and her and put us together and go out to eat, they-  woah.
You know, and then you gonna have the black girls looking like, , what she- what he with her for?
You know, and then you gonna have the white guys looking at her saying,  why she with him?
You know, it- it's still here.
Yeah, little more problem, and I- and I be the first to- I tell my guy- I tell the guys all the time that we're- we- I mean, we still in slavery.
It just modern slavery.
It just a-  another way-  It just a better way of putting it.
You know, it's still slave- To me.
That's the way I look at it.
I mean because-  I mean- Y- I- I-  And I-  I just stay su- Uh, the way I say stuff is- Now they- they listen- They listen to me, but they be like, man you crazy.
But I- I p- I compare stuff to now  with the old days.
You know, and like I- like I tell them, what we do now,  like  at work, you know,  w-  You don't get paid enough  for what you do.
You know, I don't think so.
You know, so and- and I tell 'em, you know,  it's hotter than-  in the building-  it's hot.
If it's a hundred degrees outside, it's a hundred ten in that building.
No air conditioning, no nothing.
You know, so-  You know I- I compared it to back in the- in the slavery days, you know, where  people used to be out in the field picking 'bacca And I told 'em- I just had a conversation with a guy the other day.
I said, well back then they had it- they got it more made than we do now because  they back there picking 'bacca, you know.
'Bacca ain't nothing.
You know, you picking 'bacca, and you tearing it off and put it in the basket.
You picking thirty, forty pounds  boxes  for ten hours straight, back hurting.
You know, they in the hot sun,  which is beaming straight down on 'em, but you in this tin, it- it even more hotter.
You know, so it ain't no different.
Back then, they probably paid 'em, what?
Ten cent?
You know,  they paying you this, but it ain't worth it.
Yeah.
You know, so  Yeah, you ain't- you didn't get paid for slavery.
Yeah, share croppers, so you know.
Well, you know.
But slave days,  they got paid  but the- the way they got paid wasn't money.
It was,  you work for me, you can stay on my farm.
Pretty much.
That- that was their way of paying them though, you know, cause They gave 'em somewhere to stay.
It can't be.
I mean really and truly.
It ain't no different.
Exactly.
Yeah.
It isn't- It ain't no different.
I mean- I mean really and truly, it ain't no different.
It's hot.
You know, you breaking your back.
It ain't no different, man, and back then- Just like back then, whoever owned the farm got all the money.
Know, and  pay- To me, the pay scale backwards.
I understand why it got to be this way, but it's backwards.
You know, the people that sit behind a desk and do nothing, make ninety,  eighty, ninety hundred thousand dollars a year.
People out there working hard might make  twenty five,  twenty two thousand dollars a year.
And they out there working hard.
It's slavery to me.
Either way you look at it, it's slavery to me, but.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, it-