Uh, also in the paper,  they were asking people to come and give information.
Their names will not be public.
And uh, I thought this was good to- a good step to make.
Yeah.
Uh,  well people- I think they were aware of it but they were afraid to complain.
Um,  You know it's- it's just different, um,  when you have uh, people moving in that's not from this area, and they've been exposed to other things.
You have a lot of  kids coming down from the city and in this area.
You know, maybe with the grandparents or aunts or something.
And they  uh,  think they can do what they did in other places.
You d- you- even though we might be a little country hick town but we still want a nice place to live you know, and live comfortably in- in the community where you stay, you don't wanna see that.
You know.
Yes.
Yes.
We had a l- a lot of new people to move in, and uh, from different areas.
You know.
And uh,  you can see a difference.
Even though uh, even  with the uh,  ap- apartments over here.
You know it was  very um,  aware to the people in the community that you had people  uh, coming in that  had not been here, living here previously.
Because a lot of that came in with the arguing and disturbance and  you know, loud talking and stuff going on all night long.
You know, this is a quiet community.
And everybody knows everybody else.
Yeah he was- he was gone away for a long time but his home- this is his home.
This is his home.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
People have better homes, they have better transportation, you know.
And uh, the kids  uh,  seem like they're more involved in what's happening around 'em.
Yeah.
Instead of moving away, you know, they rather be here.
Because at one point, uh, every time kids would uh, finish school uh, anything  they would just about wanna move away, go to the city somewhere.
But you don't see that now.
Mm-hm.
Right.
I think it- the opportunities has been uh, better for them to do this.
You know, even um,  I know quite a few young people  you know, like I said before that  probably would have moved away now they're trying to get them apartment or- and then  maybe work on getting a home.
And these are young people and this is good.
I would like to see more of them involved in the government though.
You know.
And this is some of the- My ideas were I think  maybe we can handle this through uh, wards needing you know different things.
And my ward meeting is coming up soon, and that's what I wanna hear from the people.
How do they feel about your community, what are the things that you really wanna see?
That you think we could do.
You know.
Mm-hm.
That would be good.
Yeah.
Right.
Right, individuals.
And you know that's one thing I did uh, when I ran for commissioner.
I went to each one of my  uh, repe- uh, agency's home, community people homes.
Individually, knocked on their door, came in, told them who I was and what I was doing.
And how do you feel about it.
I wanted to know how did they feel about it.
And they gave me their honest opinion.
And I respect that.
I really do.
Because I wanted to know how do they feel, what can we do together to make this better.
You know.
One.
Mm-hm.
This area is all the way on- on the uh,  right side  if you going this way, all in this area.
All the way back into Princeville, then where y- where Church Street is, turn Church Street.
Alright, when you get to Walston Street, turn go one block then back-  back to your uh, left, and then around Princeville School.
Uh- uh, when you get past Princeville School, turn back on Wilson Street, go one block, back down uh,  to Church Street again.
Where S and J store is, right around that area.
On the other side of the street, all of that is ward one.
And I walked it.
Every bit.
Yeah and- and know the people  you know, whom I'm represent and how they feel about it.
And d- I think this is  a good way to find out you know, what you're all about, what you really mean.
And just like, um,  the railroad um,    uh, area.
Tr- uh, department of transportation.
They wanted to close  Hogbine Road, right?
And I said, no.
We got businesses-  we got businesses, soon as you go over the cr- uh, tracks.
This man works on high power um,  boat he does a lot of welding and things like this.
You got the taxi company there, you got this auto uh,  plant there.
Then you got um,    uh, s- farm state- Y- State Farm.
You know.
All that was businesses, you don't wanna close that off.
If something happened the rescue squad would have to go all the way down by the funeral home and come back in to get over to those people.
You don't want that, and the people,  this is what they say,  uh, commission board, I don't wanna see that road close.
I said, well let's see what we can do.
When the people came down to talk with us,  we gave them our feeling.
You know.
And then they said they had so many areas that they had to meet with the community about.
And uh,  they were supposed to get back in touch with us about it.
Uh,  and right now I haven't heard from RD-NAME-1  previously but I see they came by, they didn't close it.
They fixed the uh, railroad tracks.
But they didn't close it up.
Because the people really spoke out at the meeting and let 'em know how- how we felt about it and I talked with the y- lady who was representing  the transportation department.
I said, it might be a small community but there are needs and- and  you know we been traveling these areas a long time, nobody has gotten hit by a train from that intersection but they have further down.
You know.
So it- it isn't a problem for us.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
The people from Tarboro knew this.
But the- like the world?
They didn't know this.
They did not know this.
And see years ago,  this- w-  we just haven't s-  just started this.
It was taught to us years ago.
Mrs.
RD-NAME-2, which was a previous mayor, before the mayor- before uh, RD-NAME-1.
Yea- yeah.
Uh,  She um,  was one of  uh, our members, I grew up with her children.
We ate and slept together.
You know we were in s- college together.
We knew this.
We knew what it was all about.
And Mr.
RD-NAME-2, before Mrs.
RD-NAME-2, then Mr.
RD-NAME-3 before then, and then mayor RD-NAME-2 before then.
You know what I'm saying?
Talking about it, how important.
You know, even in our churches.
How important it is.
You don't throw away your history.
And I was looking at television one night on channel seventeen,  I think it was a forty two one,  where there's another area up in Virginia.
And it was sort of like a sister place  to Princeville, and how they work you know, to get homes built and everything.
It was really amazing.
It- really amazing.
I said I would like to go there one time and just to see that area.
S- similar.
Uh-huh.
Another community like Princeville.
Yes, yes.
Mm-hm.
But uh, you know,  they been working on this years and years ago.
Even before uh, Southern Terrace was annexed to this area.
You know, the um-  I remember when Princeville only went  mm,  just below uh,  where the trailer park is.
When the area was just there.
That's it.
Yeah.
And it has grown.
I would like to see it take in the area down where those other houses are.
You know?
Um,  what do they call that?
I call it Shiloh area.
Mm-hm.
They have a lot of brick homes and trailers down in there.
If you go uh, half a mile, years ago, b- remem- believe it or not, that was my first airplane ride, dad took us down there.
On Sunday they used to do airplane rides on those little bitty planes.
And he  carried us down to have an airplane ride over the town of Princeville.
And uh, I can remember that as a little girl.
That was our airport.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I mean re- it wasn't Princeville then, you know that was Edgecombe County.
But it was considered.
And that's been years ago.
No it was sort of uh, like a little small commute.
You know, just showing the town and stuff like that.
Like a community type thing.
Ooh I probably was about eight.
About eight or nine.
And really, when the water used to come up, and it would flood down where the  is, we had to go to Tarboro, all the way around Lawrence's, you heard of Lawrence's area?
The come in to Tarboro back way.
And at that time my mom had a um,  we call a motor scooter.
Where you could just ride one person on the back.
That's- that was the transportation of getting uptown then.
Uh-huh.
Not a whole lot, Not a whole lot.
I did have information before the flood,  how many times  our area had been flooded.
And um,  ooh.
I can't- I- Was that saved, RD-NAME-1, that information?
I cannot think, I- I think it was destroyed during that area, I have to look back.
Yeah.
Yeah, I w- Yeah.
Yeah.
My mom w- um,  you know, sh- when she was- h- had the store,  and she would- used to close the store about uh, eleven o-clock.
And she would uh, promise us, now when we're closed up we're just gonna take a ride and look at the town.
And we w- used to do that a little.
The water start rising one night, and  right where you're coming off the bridge, it start coming over the road, she said, kids I gotta go back home,  cause this water's rising too fast.
And I remember it flooding the area.
And when you come in from over town,  cross the bridge where our little park is now, that used to be stores, little stores.
And it was New Bern Mill Store, there.
And then it had little  I call 'em shotgun houses, one and two rooms, sitting on the other side where the service station used to be.
People used to live there  on that side and she had the big store.
and that lady would sell  um,  corn meal,  and  things like that, it was sorta  like the hardware store.
And I remember that years ago.
Uh, New Bern Mill Store.
N- You know where the park-  where um,  the trail began,  after you come off the Tar River.
That area.
A big store and there was some houses.
Mm-hm.
And there was a little road in there really.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Just in that area.
Mm-hm.
In-   let's see.
You know what- what year they put it up, I  cannot remem- Excuse me.
I cannot remember but I can find out for you.
I sure can.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Some years back.
Some years back.
Because uh- I was told that, and you know years ago,  like when um, the older ones go away and  they would uh,  call home or write home and tell you, uh, I saw so and so and so about Princeville, I saw this about Princeville.
You know, and they even had a write up about it in the Jet.
And you know we had quite a um,  bit of famous people that came from Princeville, you know that?
You know um- Now  you take uh,  just like the Suggs boy.
Th- Suggs.
S-U-G-G-S.
He was born and raised  here in Princeville.
Uh,  and he's still here.
You know he's here now, he's married and everything.
But um,  then um,  He used to attend East Carolina.
And he was uh, a real real good football player.
Basketball player, not football.
Basketball player.
You know Magic Johnson?
His people came from here.
Yeah.
His granny was a member of my church.
Really, she just died yeah about a year half ago.
Yeah.
His mother and uh- His mother-  Ooh, what's that girl's first name?
I can't even think of her first name.
But his um- his grandmother was RD-NAME-2.
And that's his mom's mother.
But she's dead but th- the niece and her daughter, they're still here.
And they live just before you get to the graveyard, on the left.
Uh, Magic's cousin.
Mm-hm.
And let's see, somebody else,  uh,  have you ever heard of Thomas Reeves?
Who was um, coach at Fayetteville State University.
And he passed there, he had something like a amerism in his knee.
And he died right there on campus.
Um, Uh,  he came h- came from Princeville.
Born and raised here.
Went to college, went into Marine Corps, and he was some of the first ones I knew in the Marine Corps, cause we always said he was tough  And then we had um-  uh,  one of the oldest police is- uh, Jim Jones.
That was his name.
His daughter is still living here.
She teach school she's a  principal at which school,  I wanna say RD-SCHOOL-2.
At one of the schools in the county.
She's still here.
And um- Right, her dad.
And um,  the RD-NAME-2, all of them just about have passed.
Um,  Prince Court he was one of the founders.
Turner Prince.
Uh-huh.
And   he lived over where the um,  town hall is now.
And um,  let's see, somebody else.
Um,  Oh my.
Yeah just-  Mm mm mm.
And years ago before um,  Mister-  Doctor uh-  Why I cannot think?
A doctor  that we had here.
His son is still in-  uh, he's up in  Raleigh area.
He's still a doctor.
RD-NAME-2.
Doctor RD-NAME-4.
RD-NAME-6.
He wasn't  from  uh,  the Princeville area, but he worked  you know,  house visits and all of that.
And um,  they're doing so- sort of a historical thing about him, he was in the paper not too long ago.
Mm-hm.
We used to carry our kids to him  you know for testing and checking and everything, and when they had a problem.
Um,   I'll never forget years ago uh,  one child had im- impetigo  you know,  that came to the center.
And this child I want you to know  leg had turned blue.
And I carried her to Doctor RD-NAME-2, he  uh, worked with that child- Huh?
He worked with that child and he taught me how to do that leg every day that child would come to school, and that place cleared up like nothing.
I mean it was blue it was so infected.
And uh-  and you call it impetigo, anything you touch-  when you touch that leg would come infected.
And you know, we- we found kids  during that time years ago that was in really bad shape which needed uh, medical help and things.
And we would refer them  you know, to bring them out of that situation.
And one uh-  I'll never forget, one child  was in an accident with her mother, and the child  fell and bumped her head,  and that child eyes became cross.
And the mother  you know, thought she was just doing it.
You know.
You know how kids can do different things.
But it really wasn't that, she had um, like a concussion almost with her eyes.
And I remember years ago him working with that child to get her straighten out.
Y- yes he did.
Yes.
Yes.
Everything.
Only thing was saved was my car.
What we drove out of- yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh, Floyd, that day it had rained all day long.
And um,  we were here, we'd gone out- gone uptown and gotten groceries and stuff like just things we thought  we would need, you know, during the hurricane.
Filled the refrigerator full and everything.
And it was sitting back and my husband um,  was here, we were just sitting here watching out the door and I said, RD-NAME-1 it looks like it's gonna continue raining.
And water has start standing  around the people house on the other side.
Cause this side is higher.
We're sorta on a hill over here.
And uh,  he had gone down to Bethel to check on his mom's house.
And I said, RD-NAME-1 I think you better go over there and get RD-NAME-2, which was the yellow house  where you see over there, that's where her house used to be.
And RD-NAME-1 had to put on boots to go over there and get her out of the house and bring her over here.
And I said RD-NAME-2 why don't you spend the night over here with us  and tomorrow morning we'll get up and see how it's gonna be.
I want you to know we uh, took a bath and went to bed,  and about one or two o-clock  my sister call.
Said, RD-NAME-2, I said, yes, said uh,  you all better get out of that house.
I said, what's wrong?
She said, I heard that the dam has- dyke has burst.
I said I- we haven't heard a thing but we heard uh, the fire trucks going down here keep going down to um,  the trailer park.
And they were getting people out of the houses and trailers down there.
And so my husband walked down, he said, I'm'a walk down there and see what's going on.
And the man said, sir,  said, I- um,  where do you stay?
And he told him.
Said, you better get out of here as fast as you can.
And uh, so  we uh, went out-  went out to my sister's house on the other side of Tarboro.
And uh,  so he said, I'm not gonna stay I'm going back home.
I said, don't you do that, I said, you stay over here with us and just see you know, how it's gonna be.
I want you to know it kept raining and the water kept coming.
And I think it was about eleven-  about eleven o-clock that n-  that next day before all the people had- uh, was able to get out.
Cause some of the people wasn't gonna leave but that water still started rising.
And they were telling uh-  uh, the tale that one man said he c- came down on long distance truck, and I guess he thought he could get through here, and the water kept rising until it got almost to the-  up to the motor.
And he um,  backed his truck as far as he could to get out to turn around.
But he said,  uh,  he  called back his- some friend of his  and he really cried after he uh,  realized what had just happened with all the water and everything.
And they said one man uh, lived on the end of Neville Street had gotten on top of his house, he wouldn't go the first time th- the rescue came in after him.
And uh, he was glad to go to the last- the last uh,  boat that came in Right behind here.
Mm-hm.
It was- Huh?
Well uh, we l- we left about uh,  b- between one and two o-clock that night.
You see but a lot of people didn't.
And uh, one man uh, I- a friend uh, that I know lived out in the country, he didn't know that the water was rising that high out there until-  I think his automatic lights or something came on his car, and his wife got up to go to bathroom and she was asking what was wrong with the car, and he looked out there and water they say was just everywhere.
And they got out, you know.
But it was amazing because n- nobody even knew  that there was a dyke down in the next town, the next area.
But you know all of those people was flooded too.
And it was just crazy like,  um,  when they start to make the information available to us about where to go for assistance, and what to do, how people was coming, you know.
Folk you hadn't seen before.
And then I remember one lady,  uh, they hadn't found her husband, and I don't ever n- uh,  find out what happen to him, but she was there giving her information as best she could.
But I didn't hear of anybody getting drowneded  in Princeville.
Now where did you stay once you left town?
Wh- where did I stay?
On the other side of town in Tarboro with my sister.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-4.
RD-NAME-6 now.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Ooh.
About  two months, wasn't it RD-NAME-1?
About two months.
Oh.
Ugh.
It just broke your heart.
It was dreadful.
Because all of the houses had X on 'em.
That's where they had been in to check to see was anybody in there or you know.
And uh,  n- uh, no lights.
You know, and everything just-  just looked so dim and dull.
You know, like in a scary movie.
That's really how it looked.
And we rode around for a while to  see you know, how it did  different people in the area  where some of the houses was just washed up, some was sitting in the highway, You know.
It was just terrible.
Mm-hm.
We stayed in a travel trailer  which was sitting  almost where the driveway is out there.
Until we were able to get our paperwork and everything done and we w-  went out to search for a house.
And then there was a lot of things you had to do before you would  be able to put the home here.
You know like making sure everything is okay, getting inspected, make sure it's the  right footage off the ground and things like this.
And uh, whether it was uh,  feasible for us to stay here.
And the old house, after going in it and the people came in and- and tore the walls and everything out, just the skeleton part, I still didn't wanna stay in there because it wasn't safe.
Cause it was mold and everything else  under the wood where they had torn out.
And I just couldn't see myself staying there, you know, it wasn't feasible.
And anyway, some people did that and they had to end up still moving out of the houses because that mold was still in the walls.
And they couldn't do anything about it, you know.
But uh- F- Closer to the highway.
That's right.
Yes.
Yes.
And make sure it was uh,  standard uh, lever off the ground, it had to be three feet but I told them to go up one more.
You know.
To make sure.
So everybody um,  worked along and I cannot tell you,  I give thanks to God for the volunteers that came out of uh, West Virginia that came in and those men and young boys worked to move that stuff out because it smelled horrible.
When you go in uh, a house like that and then all the food and everything's been sitting there.
You know, it was- One young man got sick I felt sorry for him.
But they were so sweet and precious because those people came down and volunteered to help us.
I said, that is so precious and should be rewarded  you know, for doing something like that.
I wish we could  have a day of celebration where  people could be contacted to come back and just to see now, and see what they've done to assist  and helping us in this community.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
I think uh, people have worked well.
Um,  I did have some pictures where we took uh,  like in-  when some of the foundations were done, I had-  RD-NAME-1 and I took pictures of it even when uh-  Like some of the houses they  tried to scale out, and my neighbors house start-  and  I was sitting out looking, and that house started  really collapsing.
And the uh,  people from the uh, inspection office had to come down  and tell her, get out of that house.
Do not let anybody go in there to clean anything else out.
The older  lady that I was  telling you about.
And it was really really getting ready to fall in, and they had a traveler-  travel trailer  living out front, in front of it.
But the health inspector ca-  came over and stopped her.
You know how older people are they don't wanna get rid of things you know, even though.
But I have pictures of that, of the old house.
How it looked.