school system- I mean it's a lot of schools around here to work at, and most of the time it's- it's your basic job,  you know, eight to five job and I could just go home, you know.
And it's not really many of those around here.
I mean- Jobs and- Yeah.
Yeah, I wanna-  Yeah.
Yeah, I j- I do want- I mean, I went to school, and I had always said, when I go to school I'm not coming back down here.
All of that, but I have- It's like a bond that I have with this place.
It's like, all my family is here, all of my friends are here.
And it's like I wanna come back and give back to my community because I feel like my community is really what made me who I am.
And a lot of kids don't really get that, I mean now.
Because it's so much  other  craziness they can't even walk down the street.
People- Oh it's-  crazy around here.
Most parents won't even let their kids get out in the community be-  c-  community because of  all of the stuff that's going on.
And it's like, they miss-  They miss out on what we had fun doing, you know.
Bring it back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That Princeville pride.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But n- It seems like I'm that old.
I be old.
It just seems like I'm so old.
And I see kids that I remember being born, and they just as tall as m-  tall as I am now.
Getting ready to come out of school and it's-  it's kind of crazy cause I remember when my little brother was born, and it's like now, his voice is just as deep as my dad's, and I'm like,  ugh.
I was calling my dad house one time, and he would answer the phone.
I was like,  Dad?
He said, no, this is RD-NAME-2.
So  it- I mean, it's kind of-  ki- It sounds kind of old saying, well back in the day, but it's like stuff has changed so much that's the only way you can describe it is back in the day.
Cause it's not like that anymore.
It's not.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah,  we are very close.
My grandmother  made sure our family was close.
It's  seven children, fifteen grandchildren, fifteen great grandchildren, about sixteen nieces and think about eight nephews.
I mean- and a host of cousins and so I mean- We have o- Every Sunday we get together as a family, and we eat together.
Every holiday, we spend the holiday together as a family.
We just are a very close family.
That's how most families around here are.
And if not close with their own families, close with somebody else's or somebody they were raised by, close with a family they grew up near.
And it's like, my dad's family is even  close with my family because they all grew up together.
So,  I mean-  Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well-  I don't wanna- I don't wa- I don't wanna go you know, into this thing, about Princeville was the oldest town chartered by slaves and-  And that- Yeah, but-  Yeah.
I mean, growing up, I really didn't know as much.
I mean I didn't really appreciate Princeville as much as I appreciate it now because you have a lot of caring people  that really,  you know, mold and make who you are as a person once you grow up.
And I mean, I have so many people that I could go back and name  just that helped me along the way because we were from Princeville, you know?
Church family, um, my friends' mothers  and fathers even  took part in making me who I am.
And it's like,  I remember when Princeville was just  a big family.
I mean, it's not like that anymore, not to me.
It may be to some people but not to me.
Cause I remember when Princeville was just-  And I think the flood changed Princeville a whole lot because you had other people coming into Princeville that do- didn't really grow up there and didn't really know what Princeville was all about.
And so they kind of took it for granted, and then that's when all this crazy stuff started.
But I mean,  it wasn't- It was just- It was the place to be.
It was always something happening.
And I mean  after the flood came, it kind of split everybody up, and everybody went different ways, and it was different because it took so long for Princeville to recover from that.
And we- I mean, we had different people that came in and  donated money.
Jesse Jackson came, the President came.
Even at my-  my graduation, which was the year of the flood, Al Gore spoke at our graduation.
Mm-hm.
He was our speaker.
Um- Mm-hm.
It was very emotional.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I graduated in two thousand.
I was the drug free class.
Yeah, we were the drug free class of two thousand.
That's what they called it.
You know that was supposed to be- Yeah, so.
Yeah.
We- We kind of-  Even now when we get together, we always talk about how times were back then, and how it's not like that anymore, and we- Oh, we just talk about, y'all remember when we used to do this, and I mean,  like,  even recess.
We can even sit down and talk about recess in the first grade.
Like, we would all get our radios and go out to the playground and play the Electric Slide and everybody get together, kind of do their little thing, and then recess was over.
We would go back to class.
We can even sit down and talk about things like that  and get meaning out of it.
When now, I don't think that's there anymore.
Because you even have people in Princeville that don't really know  what it is to be  a resident of Princeville.
They're just there because circumstance or something like that.
I think that the reason Princeville is not like it used to be is because you have those people that's there that don't really know, you know, what it mean.
And  most- When I was growing up, everybody that stayed in Princeville had been in Princeville  for like thirty years.
Like grandparents and parents that were raised  there  that stayed there once they got of age and raised their own children there.
And even now that I'm in Greensboro, I was- was telling my mom the other day- I want my child to go to school down here.
Once she gets of age to go to school,  I'm moving back.
So that she can go to the schools I went to.
Because when I was in school, I kn- My mom  didn't have to worry about anything cause she knew it was somebody that was there  that was-  not even just one person.
Many people there that were looking out for me just because they knew who we were, and knew who she was, and they would look out for me.
And I mean,  and it's that kind of thing that makes-  makes you feel better knowing that you don't have to worry about something happening to your child because you got people there  that know you,  and they're gonna take care of your child like they're their own, you know?
And that's how it was going through school.
All of my teachers and everything.
Everybody knew everybody.
So,  if something happened-  Like if we would get off the bus and somebody was fighting,  we knew where to go, let their mom know,  they're fighting, can you come up there and get 'em, you know?
That's how we were.
Like,  I can remember getting off the bus- I think it was like my second grade year- And some girls were out there fighting.
Me and my cousin ran to their mom's house and got them, and they came out there and- You know?
She was like, thanks for looking- Cause that's how we did.
We were like, a big family.
We were as one.
Everybody looked out for everybody.
It wasn't a thing of selfishness, where  you just look out for yourself.
And- and you got- you have that now where, that ain't my child so I ain't worried about it, you know?
You have that now, but  it wasn't like that.
And so the most  like-  most important thing that I can remember  about Princeville is the fact that  we were just  a great community.
We were like the perfect community.
It just was perfect.
I would- I wouldn't change anything about my childhood.
As long as I could be right there where I was.
Everything was open for everybody to go- Like,  even after school, we could go to our school and play on our playground, and it wasn't even a problem.
You know?
And so.
No problem.