Yeah, RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
I didn't- I didn't really like it.
I was doing it more so to help my teacher.
So.
No, um,    they pretty much know  that here-  A lot of people come  to a nice  atmosphere, you know.
Not- I don't allow cussing.
I don't allow smoking and all that stuff.
Some of 'em like in the evening may smoke in here, but most a-  you know.
To protect people, I usually let them smoke outside.
So in  most-  A lot of salons,  don't have any  value- They don't- They don't really  have any rules and regulations and stuff, but I can't stand it.
And it's pretty much here- Everybody- We respect-  It's just as if everybody own this salon.
I respect them.
They respect me.
They- I don't have to tell them when to come to work as long as a client is not here waiting for 'em.
They're pretty much self employed, but I still let them  think it's unprofessional that you have a client here, you're not here.
So we got rules and regulations like that.
Mm-hm.
Well, um- Well um, the girl that um-  Three of my operators,  um, they was in the flood.
So they needed somewhere to work.
The- they- their um, salon got destroyed, and  so I opened up-  At the other salon, I opened up um, three more booths so they can-  Uh, I would accommodate them.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Um,  the plans for the future for me, I wanna open up two more salons,  and I wanna get out of doing hair.
Yes.
I wanna-  My dreams and my hopes are- I want  to purchase one of the houses in the  Historic District downtown, one of the large houses.
And I want a group home.
I wanna be a spiritual counselor for young people.
That's what I really wanna do.
That's my dream.
I wanna um, have it set up so they can come and stay over  on the weekends and stuff and  you know, kind of teach them because  some kids  are really  hurting,  and some kids just need somebody positive- I'm- I think I'm a very positive person.
Mm-hm.
I wanna make a im- Because  when I look back on childhood,  you know,  we were a victim of circumstances.
We didn't wanna-  my mom to be a single parent.
I didn't wanna  be- And I used to be intimidated by people with families.
So that was a lot of- my attitude.
I would see their families in the mall and stuff or going places, or their  family coming out to  um,  PTO meeting and my mom be by herself, so it was a lot of  hurt in my heart and- and that's why I thank God that RD-NAME-2 and I- We was young but we split up- But  him and I, his wife and I,  we get along so good that- You know, because I don't want him to not a be a part of my daughter's life, so.
I l- I- I just like the family thing, and that's why my family and I are so close because  whatever it take for us to stay together,  then that's what I'm gonna do, so.
And my mom died.
We funeralized her  about  on last Saturday.
And so it's like  the- the young kids  prof-  profits gone,  so I wanna-  I wanna fill in and-  and not let them-  I don't want us to go astray,  so, you know, I always keep up with them, and  see how they feeling, see how they doing, and stuff.
I w-  I wanna take my mom's place.
To keep us together.
Mm-hm, I do.
I'm the youngest, but I'm the more-    I'm bossy.
I'm the youngest of all of 'em.
Yes.
So.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Try to be that one that if they need-  they need something, and  I wanna be available f- to 'em, when- whatever way  that I can i- Even  with my group, this is a part of the Chosen Few, Carolina Pippin.
And we're- they-  I'm like a mom to 'em,  that they mom get mad with us, because they so close to me.
If they're having a problem, they know that they can come talk to me.
Mm-hm.
That's my- It's my- That's my w- I think that's my calling.
I really do.
To give and to love and-  Cause I got a lot of love to give, you know?
And-  and my mom s-  always w- would tell me I would never get married because  I got too much stuff going on.
So I got to have a understanding husband.
So.
I got a whole lot on my plate, but God see me through, and I love it.
I love people.
And you know, and I- and- and even the kids in the community and stuff, even in my church and stuff, I always  like do things that we can get involve, and sometime I  get together and take the kids  you know, to the park and to the beach and stuff because some- some kids parents don't take the time to do that.
And then it's not that expensive.
Just  put some gas in your car, drive up to the beach and come- come back, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
My mom talked about the history of Princeville but only history of Princeville was- See they talked about it,  but  to see it in reality,  it wasn't nothing they talk-  You know, nothing to brag about.
And  the history of Princeville to me is  if-  if there is a history then,  let me see it.
And I had- have  had nothing positive because  it always  ended um,    The commission of mayors and stuff,  they always was in conflict.
Ever since I was a little child, al- it always was a conflict.
Somebody stealing money, and-  but  um,  the way you deal with that is  you take it as  a grain of salt and go on.
You know, and- and it was-  it was nothing positive to me, you know.
Uh, lot of black-  older black coulda been  a big impact on our life, but they didn't.
Yes, we were real close.
They talked about um,  how hard it was um, growing up.
Um,  pretty much worked in the fields and-  and   work- Yeah, sharecroppers.
They were  housekeepers.
Um,  pretty much what they talked about.
I remember um,  the story that  my grandmother was telling us about.
They had to walk to school.
They couldn't ride on the busses, and by the time they got back from school,  they had walked so far  that they had forgotten what they learned  that- that day.
They'll always talk about that.
You know, you- And they alw- always would say, you all are blessed that-  you- You know, if we had opportunity that you had- That's all I ever hearded, so.
Uphill both ways, and you know, we had to- dri- You know, if you got pregnant in school and stuff, you couldn't stay in school, and  some days they had to miss school to uh, work,  you know, in the fields and stuff.
That's all I used to hear.
No my mother never worked on a farm.
She was like,  most of the house-  a housekeeper.
She was a housekeeper.