Mm.
Somebody got sick out there.
Yeah.
But still they called a rescue squad to go with 'em though not yet.
No it's not mine.
It's a-  I- n- my district is  twenty one.
That's  I would say uh, like  eight,  ten miles from here.
Something like that.
Mm-hm.
Well actually yeah.
We got some of-  members of there  that left here and went over there to be a paid fireman, but- and some of 'em- Well, they- we'll work together if ain't nothing going on like that.
Cause usually we always had go over there, but they got two fire departments over there.
And uh, if a person out of town or something like that and they'll come over here and help us out like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, right.
Mm-hm.
Well, it runs uh- ought- we sposta be something like-  where it's calls that -  four miles out  your district.
But now you at- you- we meet the district  wherever you're really needed at tell you the truth now.
Cause this place at one time,  fifteen, sixteen,  eighteen, nineteen, and twenty one.
When we first got this station we running all them.
Sure did.
Yeah, had to run 'em all then cause wasn't enough- wasn't no more fire stations out in that area.
So we took care all of it then.
And now they got fifteen, sixteen,  eighteen and twenty one.
And us is seventeen.
Well seventeen used to take care all of them.
Yeah.
Mm- mm.
Well it's a whole lot busier now.
We could do just now or .
Yeah because  I tell you right now, these are a big difference then and now.
They ain't many times   then you see it and then it starts right over there.
Rescue squads and the  uh, ten fifths of the accidents Stuff like that.
Cause I remember one night, these people's-    over in this area down here they went out there and j- c-  speed out there and they got about half fired up drunk and two ladies that brought them-  Well one lady, one man brought them back home.
Trailer back over there and about- I don't know what- two or three o'clock in the morning- We got a call, went over there, and that trailer was on fire.
And as we got it out, I went in there, found the- found the lady laying in the hall there dead.
And them other guy find the man back in the back over there dead.
The- there- if a house caught on fire, they did- about drunk when they brought them home and left 'em.
And they went back to party some more.
So I don't know how it caught on fire.
Yeah I've seen a lot of that stuff in my life.
I'm-  When I lived in Conetoe one day a little boy he ride around that thing, he had a cable cross to even riding it.
And he was riding there flying.
It threw 'em up in the air, bust his head open when he hit the ground down there.
He was bleeding like I don't know what.
Kill him dead right then.
Uh, happened one of them old- s- sp- o- coolers run around  a place where they had down there  for the drive around on something down there in the Conetoe.
It was something about-  about wide- look about as wide as that chair.
Boy just go right around it.
That's what  info- information around there.
Riding on the little a-  automotive cars.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Uh-huh.
Yeah but he- see, he- what happened he had a cable cause they keep his bike running out there, and he was out there messing and didn't have no business out there.
Mm.
Yeah right.
Mm, uh-huh.
He was messing around with it.
Flipped over and killed him.
Yeah I was just .
Mm-hm.
Well that- I never had one that was just like that.
But once, just like that.
But  I mean- Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
But stuff like that it d- it don't- it don't- it really don't bother me now.
I come in a home at night.
There's blood everywhere down there, and  come home and eat supper, doesn't even bother me.
And one more time, I had-  it'd been two days  before he could eat, but stuff like that don't even bother me if I c- see somebody like dead like that.
No, it didn't ever bother me like that.
Yeah.
It's not-  Yeah.
I-  I just- you got- Well that's come up  like I did I reckon.
I just wont ever  afraid of nothing like that that much.
Cause right now if you go out  calls, stuff like that- that it don't hurt me to try to help 'em do- straighten out.
So that's been one of them things all my life, God been good to me.
I  tell you cause it's so many people I know who gonna  going on, or in bad shape and all that kind of stuff setting in.
Mm.
Maybe.
Might- mighta been.
Mighta been.
And didn't never go out nowhere drinking and stuff like that.
I imagine that would have something to do with it too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
\ M- my daddy, yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was at school some too.
But my education, I didn't ever get none of that.
I made it d- uh, had-  They uh-  I would try hard and the teacher'd give me the credit for trying, but I never got into nothing like that.
And then I went into work one day, and the man told me take a supervisor job.
I told him I couldn't stand it, but I went in there and -    I got the job and he said I did it so good that he said- Like I told you, he said  he would take two full time mechanics put back there to run it like I run, I didn't have labor there.
So I musta been doing alright.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah well he gave me the job.
I took it.
Yeah, took it.
And runned it just like they wanted to run it.
But the guy, way he was doing it, now he was, uh,  up to date man cause he grew up- he was born and raised on his daddy's farm.
But the stuff he want to run, he want run a whole lot of pounds a day,  which it look good to have a- run a lot of pounds a day, but he want the stuff run today, what they gonna use today and tomorrow.
But the stuff where he run , sit up beside the- in- in the  open there for two, three days or maybe even a couple of weeks before they even need it.
But they want the stuff what you got running today and-  and sell and be able to pay off your bill.
And then what I run.
Yeah.
Oh I didn't get over the first grade .
No.
Yeah.
Probably was cause long then they didn't care how far you were, you had to walk it out.
You had to w- w- walk up about something about- I would say about eight miles a day.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Me, uh-  About seven or eight miles, something like that.
Yeah, most of 'em.
Yeah.
Yeah, then I had to work then.
Oh.
Til night, and stuff like that.
Well sometime you might have to stay out to help 'em out a little bit like that.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was kind of tough alright.
Mm.
Lot- ??
on Sunday usually have a little time like that for  a lot of Saturdays you had to keep right on rolling.
Yeah.
Well actually  at that time,  uh,  there weren't much  out there you could get to play with then, you know, or Like it is now,  playing ball and stuff like that, you know, that weren't even out here then.
And I remember, uh,  I played ball a little bit out at school there and stuff like that, but that w- that was about it.
And a lot of stuff right - not  You wont- wont even into it like you is now, no way.
Yeah.
Well, I-  let's go play with other children and stuff like that on Sunday, like I said, and that mostly about it.
Yeah.
Right after I was-  started going around and see girls and all, see you go together.
I reckon about three or four o'clock in the evening but  Sun- or nine Sun- or nine o'clock at night  you had to go home.
And ladies  they had supposed to start moving them chairs around the other rooms, you got to  the girl already left.
Yes indeed.
That's the way it was long then.
And- Yeah, I used to go- Yeah I used to come to Princeville sometimes, there's clubs or places around here like that a little bit.
Walk up here and walk on back out there at nights.
Plow  was all day, yeah.
Yeah meet those girls or something like that.
Yeah, I did that.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh-hm.
Yeah, I had to get back out there.
Well they had one right- right u- up here.
Right there, store right up there.
And they had another one up there East Tarboro up there.
Gl- Oh.
I forget what the name of the place now.
It was the- something like a club though, a joint right here.
Yeah, uh-uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Yes.
Yeah, well they have some p-  a-  s- a space back there in the back there where you dancing do too, back in there.
And the other place about the same way, the-  but the staff always been for them up there.
We didn't ever get up in that part.
Mm-hm.
Mm,  walked the most of the time.
Yeah.
Mm, I don't even remember what kind of car I got the first time but I know I ain't never bought but one new in my life.
Yeah, I bought one brand new one in my life, and I went out there- I bought it from Greenville.
I went down there.
The man told me want me paying a hundred and sixty nine dollars a month.
I told him that ain't gonna work.
He figured down to a hundred and fifty dollars a month.
I said, can't pay that either.
And he said, man, how much money you wanna pay on a new car?
I said, look.
I said, I don't make much money.
I wanna pay just as less as I can.
And he  figured down to a hundred and thirty some dollars a month.
And I run it up to a hundred and forty dollars a month, so if I got sick the payments of bills still go on.
And I got that thing and drove it twenty years, and didn't have nothing done to the motor or any other- transmission, either one, in twenty years.
But when the water come in here, it got it.
And I ain't- I- I been sick over it ever since.
Yeah.
Yes it was.
Unintelligible Dodge uh ?
uh, Chrys- Dodge Chrysler.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Drove it twenty years.
Flood got it.
But a lot of stuff we would got- we- if we had known it, we coulda got rid of it- got-  drove it out cause I coulda drove that car waiting there.
I drove another one with me.
I left two trucks and my car there.
But if I had known like I know now, I sure drove it away from there.
Yeah.
Yes indeed.
Yeah.
Mm, yeah.
And the- re-  and r- and Senior Citizens.
Yeah, mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And that's about it then.
Mm-mm.
That's a .
Never know why they start that too.
Most of the time when they call, due to weather.
If it ever start to raining, stuff like that, cause might  ten fifties and-  Well, you get a few house fires around like this.
So like a-  about  two weeks ago now, some guy  and his wife got into it.
He-  he cut her throat and killed her and burned the house up and all of that.
And I think they  cremate her, and have her funeral  that day.
But then I think they done cremate her.
I don't understand people these days.
Lord have mercy.
I ain't-  I'm telling you- I'm telling you  see I ain't never seen nobody I wanna hurt.
Then a woman gonna let me on that bed, let me be in her, and-  and I ain't never felt no  when you get up there on one like you want.
And he gonna to kill her, there's something wrong.
I don't want them- I don't want to be around them.
No, sir.
No he in jail down there now, somewhere I hear.
He said she hit him with a hammer, or something.
That what he saying now, but she dead.
Don't nobody how- know how it happened.
Mm.
Mm, he burned the house up.
The fact they wouldn't- It wa- It was about four o'clock in the morning.
I didn't go to the call but my-  these people- my boys went.
And they had three fire departments out there at night, I know  they was in Conetoe's  District.
And I know them, they got there three time that day again to put it out.
And every time it start smoking around, they take go back out there again.
So there's some sick peoples in this world, but them folks wanting to be killing folks, I don't even wanna be around 'em.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Well y- little accident.
Somebody had to a car accident, yeah.
Yeah, gets  them too.
And then people get sick, and then we call- get calls with them too with the rescue squad too.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, that's what we get now.
But like I told the boys, the open only one fire department, like we did then, we wouldn't never rest.
Cause whatever well you hear that while ago, that was one of 'em then.
Th- and long at that time, they would have been our district.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh y- Well it wont that busy then,  but I'm glad now it wont busy cause I don't know how we woulda run through it then.
Yeah, covering all that area.
Cause we went out here last week,  right up the hill, and we got back here and it wont ten minutes before  had to go out here on another call out there.
Well I ain't- I ain't even got out my truck before I got another call going back out here, on the,  uh,  cemetery right there.
Somebody got sick- they got to fighting out there and-  and the guy got  hurt,  and he called us, the rescue squad.
It was about four sheriffs coming out there.
But he had  got there.
But I'm sure where they got it cause they knew who he was.
Yeah.
They were younger- young- I would say  not over twenty five years old, in that area.
Yeah, they fighting out there.
There's a place out there they fight most anytime out there.
And something I hear the last night that said- -  Let's see, what was it now?
Oh somebody stole a car.
Took off on a car but no ,  no insurance or nothing on it.
And they called a lawyer, looked on my scanner, he had that.
And then the- in less than  ten minutes,  they were fighting back around the backside up in there.
So,  so it's just one of them things a whole lot of time, I tell you.
That- the little si- uh,  Lakeside.
That's a trailer park out there.
Y- Yeah.
Y- Yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah, right after you get to Princeville down there.
It's- it's  right after you pass,  uh,  thirty three highway, you make a right and it's-  it's right up there on your left there.
It's right side sixty four, but a railroad track got a- got a  there.
Little-  few buildings twixt that and there.
But it's right in that area over there.
Yeah, okay.
Mm, yeah, they get a lot of problems back there.
Yeah.
Yeah, it has changed a lot.
Well right now it's- it's worse than it was one time, a lot .
Unintelligible and all that h- is a lot better than it is now.
Cause you had some man though, he come here from Durham, and he come in here and messed it up.
And then the water come in, washed it out and  a lot of people don't know which way to go to get the stuff back.
See a lot of them people, they got these-  got   up with people not paying tax on houses.
And along at that time, you could get 'em for five or six hundred dollars, pay the taxes up and it would be yours.
And  after the water come in and got  still them, spending them  sixty and seventy thousand dollars to build one back, they let the lot go.
Cause I don't blame the .
I got a couple at East Tarboro.
If they had got them, I wont wanna get th-  I w- gotta let 'em go too.
If my money had- I wont got try to build them back.
Cause like I ain't never had no money no way.
And I was up there late.
I was-  When I was a boy,  my uncle married her.
I never even learned him.
And uh,  I was out in the yard, then she called me and told me she come over to .
And  she wanted me to go get a piece of plyboard and put on her bed.
She was in a wheelchair.
I went and got it and put it on the bed.
She told me she'll pay me when her check comes.
She said, I haven't got it.
She paid me when her check come.
Now she hired a guy cutting her grass.
She was paying eight dollars every two weeks cut her grass.
She want me start cutting.
I started cutting the grass.
And she told me come back over in one day.
She wanna talk about something.
So I went back over there.
I said, what does she want?
When I went back over there,  she said,    her daughter told her when she dies, they were gonna have her cremated, and she didn't want that- her nieces rather.
She didn't have no children.
Had two nieces yet.
And I t- told her- She didn't want that.
She want me to be in charge when she die.
She want me to go downtown and put my name on her money in the bank.
Sure, she didn't have but four, five hundred dollars in the bank, but I went down there and  put me on and kept it up and-  and uh, later come sit with her four hours a day.
And she went to bathroom, wasn't eating, and r- .
And lady got out the next morning before she- when she come to work.
And I made sure she was in the bed every night from then on before I went to bed.
And after she decided she wanted to go to a rest home.
And I told her she better put her house in somebody's name, she go to the rest home.
She told me it goes- she didn't- t- belong to them.
I told her, you can put that in mine now if you want to.
If that what you want to do.
And she said that what she wanna do, so I went outside and talked to my lawyer, and he send his secretary up there  and show her exactly what she was doing.
And told her if that what she wanna do, for to sign it right here, and she signed it there.
And they giving me the house.
And uh, I stayed right with her.
at went to rest home.
See, in about a year and a half, I think I missed  two days of going out there to see her.
If I stay  I been out there twice a day well I laugh so much people got to liking me, and after  they say you could come out here to see us sometime.
So I went out there to see- go out there every now and then to see them sometime, you know.
And if she dies, as a- I  put five thousand dollars on her then at that time.
And the preacher told me go up and gonna bless me for how I treated that old lady.
So I got the house rented out right now.
Yeah.
That's over East Tarboro up there.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, so- Uh- it's uh- I can't even think of her name right now.
Yeah I did.
I hung in there for- It was like she was a mama to me already.
Uh yeah.
Oh yeah I got  two daughters around the area.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
They stay at Princeville too.
Uh,  the oldest one name RD-NAME-2.
Well sh- RD-NAME-4 now.
RD-NAME-5 now.
And the other one name RD-NAME-4.
Or s- Yeah.
Work for the school.
RD-NAME-2 work for schools and  RD-NAME-2 work for telephone company.
Yeah.
That's the only two I got right here.
And I got one down in Ayden, named RD-NAME-1, she used to run a store down there but she- last time I talked to her, she had just sold the store.
She-  so she had to find a little job cause they had got rid of the store.
She had stopped running the store, but the store still belong to them but she said she has  sit home.
Her name RD-NAME-2 I think is her last name since she got married.
That's the oldest daughter.
Mm-hm.
That's the- she half sister to them other two.
Ayden.
Down in Ayden.
That's- that's the other side of Greenville down there.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
About- I got  two grandsons, and I think I got  uh, three or four greatgrands.
I'm at the school one day last year.
One of 'em come running out that door- Hey Granddaddy!
I didn't bit more know him more than you did, and his mama neither.
But his mama had told him who Granddaddy was and he recognized.
Cause he was out there the school playing, but he recognized who Granddaddy was  cause I didn't know him, but I find out when Granddaddy showed up.
Unintelligible well I think I got about three or four  great grand, and it was- that's about, uh, three of- three of 'em.