Eleven students probably.
And that's the average.
And then um,  it's-  I think it's like  four hundred to five hundred students at the school point blank.
So that's the difference between thousands of students.
And um, I like that because  I can- we can- I can have a one on one really with the teacher.
Not like-  not just like a number in class like,  okay.
You know?
How am I gonna get help from the teacher if  you got  four thousand or more students, you know, so.
That's a- that's an advantage with that school.
And um,  they're big on education.
They are very big on education, like,  you have to- it has to be on point.
Perfection is how they want it, you know?
So I like that.
Well a lot of-  Oh no, like,  most of the students there are from out of state.
But see- but- what- they're- you- they um-  in state and out of state pay the same tuition.
It's not like, if you out of state-  Of course, it's a private school so  if you out of state, you know,  you would have to pay more  than a in state will.
But it's the same price.
It's-  Majority of 'em are out of state students.
Like we have a couple-  a lot of- a couple- like maybe,  ten or eleven-  tw- maybe twelve.
Can't think of all their names, but they're from California.
We have some from um,  Utah,  Chicago, Detroit.
We have one- one girl on my  first floor, she's from Detroit.
Um, um, her name- RD-NAME-2.
Her name is RD-NAME-5.
She's from Detroit, so.
Um,  we have a lot from New Jersey, New York,  um-   Let's see.
A lot of Washington, DC.
We have  four from Florida.
Um, well we don't have any from Louisiana, but  let's see.
Kansas.
Just different places like,  it's only a couple of us that's actually from North Carolina.
It's so funny like, it's only of a couple of 'em.
Like,  somebody come there like, different things that we- how we deal with things is so different from them.
North Carolina is slow.
You know?
I'm like, it is, you know, it's not like where you are from cause you- you know?
We-  Travel-wise, you know, um, we have busses and trains running every day.
I said, honey, what busses we got-  We don't really need it because we're big on  if we don't have our car, we can't get around.
You know, like when I went there,  I was like-  I w-  I was like, okay, I'm riding in a cab.
You know?
I never rode a cab when I was here like, uh, no, I have my own car.
I drove myself wherever I wanted to go and that's how it is.
And now- I get there now, I'm on the bus like, I'm on a bus.
No, they are- they don't let freshmans have cars.
You can have cars but- Um,    let's see.
I don't really- I can't really say because um,  I had a- I had a good GPA.
So it wont like- My-  It was a two point seven eight.
So I mean, it was- it was- I was there.
I was there.
I was- At least I was at a two point five.
But um, like I had Alice- She was- she was on the Alumni Board, so  she could put in a good word for me, so.
It wasn't like,  so.
And like- But I can't complain because I made the Dean's List and the Honor's List, so.
And we have a thing we call um- They have  the spring and the fall Honor's Convocation.
Like when you- they call your name out, you go- you shake the president's hands, the vice president's, and- Them are the only two.
They give out the awards, and your um,  uh, let's see.
Your advisor of-  of your um, different- Cause we have Humanities and what's the other one?
Um,  I can't think of all the other  majors and what they call 'em.
Science and Mathematics something.
Well whatever.
They um,  they call out your name and everything.
You get to shake their hand and get your awards.
You get one for being on the Honor's List and the Dean's List, so.
And I was glad- I was blessed to get both, so  I'm telling myself I gotta keep my GPA up.
I have to keep my GPA up.
You know, cause it- it looks better than just having a little two point something, but having a three oh says it all.
Like, you- you- you work hard for it.
I was- When I w- You know what?
Until I got to my  Junior,  Senior year I had a three point two, but um-  three point one.
I mean, three point one two.
Three point- three point one one, something.
Yeah.
So.
But um, When I got here, I was like, you know what, I wanna do better than better, so.
You have to- you have to keep your head in books.
Stay focused.
Time management is the best thing.
And when I come back, I'm better than-  Cause like, now, when I was just got back, I was like, okay.
Working,  doing this, working on this.
But  I gotta balance it out more because it's hard tryna work and do classes too, you know?
And then come home and do your- go and come back to your- go back to your dorm and do your  actual work and then study, but um, I said to myself, I got to balance that out, so.
I'm gonna be better at- when I go back next- week after next.
So um, right now, I'm just like okay.
This my- this is my week to just chill.
Behind me.
I don't mind.