Okay.
Yes.
I stayed on uh, Church Street with my grandmother.
RD-NAME-3.
No, after the flood in ninety nine, uh,  Grandma didn't wanna go  back to Princeville.
Said she needed a change.
She felt that  by her being  that old that she didn't want to start over again in the same place where she was raised, so we moved to Rocky Mount, which is about fifteen miles away.
The neighborhood over there around the corner from my uncle's house.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Most of 'em, yes.
Princeville was basically like,  your last name  didn't matter because everybody  was family.
Like if  you did something in the streets and somebody else's family saw it,  it's like they had permission  to punish you, and then you would get punished again when you got home.
So it's basically like everybody knew each other.
If- if we ate anything, they ate, so it's like basically we did everything  together.
And nothing was separated.
And it's a whole lot different now because  you don't see  those people anymore.
Everybody  moved away.
It's a lot of people came back, but it's twice as many that  didn't come back and didn't wanna come back.
Um,  most people  just came across the bridge to  Tarboro.
A lot of 'em moved to Rocky Mount and  Greenville, Raleigh,  Greensboro.
Just moved anywhere but there because they didn't- I mean after the flood and everything,  it- it still doesn't feel the same.
My mother moved back it doesn't feel the same.
Cause you don't see those same people anymore.
It's a whole bunch of new people.
RD-NAME-2.
Mm-hm.
She-  Yeah, she did.
She was really pressed that- And was just like, can we just please move somewhere else?
And  the land that she has my  grandfather  willed to her, and so she wasn't gonna give her land up that easily.
She didn't care what kind of land they called it or  what people thought of Princeville.
That was her home and that she wanted to go back, so she did.
RD-NAME-3?
Mm-hm.
I know a lot about my grandfather, but I  do not know  a lot about his family.
There- they are a lot of RD-NAME-1 and I'm not sure if we are related.
I know some of his family, but.
So yeah, this may not be the same RD-NAME-1.
It was like she was almost hysterical.
Anytime we said anything about not going back, it was like getting your head chopped off.
She was like, you don't wanna do what?
But she was- she was pressed on getting back.
And she did all she could.
I mean we didn't have our hand in the cookie jar or anything about that house.
And neither did my father because she just hustled basically.
Did- she did everything as far as the furnishings and um,  picking out  what house she wanted and  we had  nothing to do with that.
She didn't want us to have anything to do with it.
It's like, this is- I want my house- my new house to be as close as possible to my last house so I will feel comfortable in it.
And she did.
To a T.
If it took her ordering something from Timbuktu to get it to look like the last house, she did it.
Just one more aunt, just one more aunt that's there.
And I have a few cousins  that went back.
But as far  as the maternal family, it's just my mother and my aunt.
Mm-hm, which is totally different now.
But, yeah.
It was-  You didn't see too many white kids.
I didn't meet  my first white person until I was in the third grade because from kindergarten to second, I went to Princeville.
It was like, you saw white teachers, but no white students.
And I-  the first white student was third grade when I went to this school called RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 Elementary and that's when um, the kids from Princeville  and the kids from Stocks Elementary School- that school only had the third grade.
So it's just basically taking these two schools and mixing them together.
And it's just like two schools meeting each other for the first time, so.
One was mostly white.
That- Stocks had a few blacks because of East Tarboro and East Tarboro students went there and then all the Princeville students uh, went to Princeville.
I mean I see- you would see them, but I- just like, I never had 'em in my class.
It was like, a classroom with two teachers.
The teachers,  most of 'em was like they had a black and a white teacher and then it's like, thirty black students.
So that's all I was used to seeing was black kids so when I saw this white kid, I'm like, well what is he?
It was strange, and then I remember seeing movies about the segregation and all that stuff was just running through my head.
But it- it was nothing like that.
Ac- my best friend for the longest time was a white kid.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It was RD-SCHOOL-3.
And  that was fourth  and fifth.
Fourth and fifth grade before we went to middle school.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
No, actually that's the only- that's the only time that we were ever in school together because when she got  there- when she was a freshman, I was a senior.
I went to college at um, North Carolina A and T in Greensboro.
I got homesick,  missed my grandmother and my mother so  I came back home  and did the lazy thing for awhile.
And then I went to  ECU  and I got bored with that.
It takes a lot  to please me, and that school didn't please me.
So now I have applied to the Art Institute in Charlotte.
And just waiting to hear from them so I can go on and  finish and leave North Carolina.
Yes.
Fashion Design.
Mm-hm.
I've been drawing  basically all my life, but  when I went off to A and T is when I started majoring in it.
They had a good program in it, but  I thought at that point two and a half hours was  too far away from home.
I had the chance to go to  The North Carolina School of Science and Math, and I think that would have-  If I had gone, that would have prepared me um,  for being on my own, but I wasn't used to being on my own and that kind of freaked me out.
So I wasn't ready when I left, and I was home every single weekend for two and a half years.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
That's nothing there, but I guess it's just like,  the same way anybody else feels about home,  no matter what's there or what goes on there when you can't run away from it, it's still gonna be your home.
And it was only-  Princeville to me now  is- is not the same Princeville because you see all these people that you don't know doing things that you really don't approve of, and you're like, I can't believe this is the place  that I grew  up in.
And the- the street that I grew up on was basically like,  middle class.
And now, if you go down that street, a lot of those people are gone and you see a lot of  drug addicts and prostitutes and just a whole bunch of carrying on that you didn't see before the flood.
Especially on that street.
You just didn't see that-  that  type of carrying on on that street.
I  think  that with-  with the flood it really messed a lot of people up, not giving them an excuse to be on drugs because it was  probably there, and I just didn't see it.
But now it's just like th- everybody's open with it.
Just going through Princeville now you gonna-  Nine times out of ten, you gonna see more drug addicts than you do just regular people I mean cause they just roam the street.
A lot of people- it- it really messed a lot of people up.
It really did.
And it's just like, people know-  It's just so many drugs going through that area.
It's  people coming from-  seems like they're migrating from north, just to come here.
You see all these new people, and it's like,  you get to talk to 'em and like where are you from?
I'm from New York or  New Jersey and I'm  just tryna figure out well why are they here?
Why did they come here?
It's strange.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The cost of living is lower, but still.
A lot of outside people.
If you- if you would go through Princeville right now and just pick a random person just walking in the street and like, did you grow up here?
You're gonna get the answer no.
Cause it's not that many people left.
Tarboro, Greenville, Greensboro, Raleigh, Rocky Mount.
I'm gonna be  brutally honest.
We have the dumbest bunch of people running Princeville.
We always get the wrong people in there.
They get in there and do all this talking about, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that and they never do it.
And we can find the most uneducated people to try to run this town.
It's-  it's sad.
And anytime they have a town meeting, it's-  These are supposed to be grown, educated, civilized people, and they're in the town meeting fighting, and they have it on the front page of the newspaper.
I'm not used to that kind of stuff.
No.
We've had dumb mayors, but  it hasn't- it hasn't been like that before.
We've had the dumbest bunch of mayors.
I think we need to be in the Guinness Book of World Records.
Probably part of the reason.
Uh, misusage of funds, I mean any kind of money that came through was always a big scandal about that, and it's basically I just don't think that- It's- there's one woman that's on the town council that really pushes  and drives for Princeville  to be good but they don't give her her credit.
And that's  Ann Howell  Brown.
RD-NAME-4.
I know some call her RD-NAME-2.
Um,  she-  she's a go-getter, and she  gets a lot of stuff going for Princeville.
She'll get the ball rolling but they won't continue to push it.
It's like they'll  work on it a little while, and then they just  leave her ideas alone.
And she's like,  the most civilized and most educated person that they have in there.
And I really think she should be mayor, but I don't know why they don't see that.
You know, she's a good person.
Yes.
I don't think so.
They- they're the ones that complain about everything, but when you go through the polls, the polls are like bare.
It's like, okay.
You were complaining but where are you now?
So no they don't.
I don't think they do.
People say it just to  say it, but they don't do it because they- r- fail to realize that  when the voting goes on and they have it on the news, they let you know the percentage of people that showed up and the percentage is usually low.
And you know like, if- if Princeville has seventeen hundred  people, why did only six hundred people, and sometimes not even that many, why did only six hundred people show up to vote?
It can't be six hundred grown people and eleven hundred children.
That doesn't make sense.
Everybody was together.
Everybody was together.
We had a  stubborn grandmother.
Very stubborn but she made sure that all of us stayed together.
Um,  she never-  even though I was her favorite-  Unintelligible.
It was- it was a- it was a bunch of us and  she just took care  of everybody.
She didn't do for one unless she did for the  other forty eight of us cause think it was fifteen  grands, fifteen great grands and then  seven?
She had seven kids and then they all had spouses.
So we all met up every Sunday at her house.
She had a fairly large house.
It wasn't big enough.
But it- it was large enough.
Every Sunday, and we still do it now but we just do it at my aunt Sabrina's house.
Um,  cause the house that we moved into after the flood was  smaller.
Not that much smaller, but it just couldn't  house all of us.
And during the flood, Thank God for my aunt Gail, she  has a room  on the end of her house that's about  twenty by forty feet?
So during the flood all of us stayed in Princeville except for her and two of my uncles and so it was forty one people in her house for nine months.
So that Sunday tradition basically turned into an everyday thing for nine months.
And it-  it really wore me out, but I'm just glad that we did have somewhere to go, and to humble us, she would um, let us go to  Tarboro High School to really see how blessed we were by being a close knit family, and then seeing how some of these families had to live at the school for- for so long and  some of 'em not even having anywhere to go.
We really couldn't drive anywhere w- but we walked.
Um, they had like this  block and we had-  had a curfew too.
But  like this part down here you couldn't go-  you couldn't go to- we had to go through McMillan Drive and take the back way because it- if you were in a certain neighborhood, you had to stay within that neighborhood and couldn't go any further.
So we would go up there maybe once or twice a week.
Yes.
I don't think it would-  A lot of her rubbed off on us also because we just stubborn just like her, just determined to do  a lot of things cause she had  all the odds against her and she overcame everything.
And I- I feel that we all can do the same thing too.
She was just that type of person.
There's only a few.
There was only a few.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The Art Institute in Charlotte.
It's a good school.
Main reason why I hadn't gone back to school I was doing  like local schools.
And I considered ECU local because I was really dead set on not leaving my grandmother.
And every time I would say that I was going back to school, she would get sick.
She would get physically sick.
Just like I want you to do this-  Basically it's what she was saying, I want you to do this,  but deep down inside she still didn't want me to leave.
And the day that she died, I was supposed to been going to  orientation, so that bothers me but then again it pushes me because I know that she really wanted me to finish, but I also wanted her to know that she was not what was holding me back.
I didn't want to leave her, and she knew that.
But now that she's gone, I kn- know that she would really want me to move away and go on and finish because I've been doing it for seven years and I'm not finished yet, so.
It's time- it's basically time for me to grow up because  anything I needed or anything that needed to be done, she did for me.
Yeah I'm on my own now.
My first love is um-  I really wanna be a wardrobe stylist for like a television show or music videos or like magazine spreads is something I've always been interested in, but  when you get that degree you can basically do anything from imaging to  designing.
I don't want my own line.
There's too much that comes with that.
And then, I don't know how to sew.
Anything that I have designed there's a woman in Princeville that does  all the sewing because I refuse  to get behind a sewing machine and learn how to do anything.
Uh, her name is RD-NAME-4.
Her- that was her sister that I was just talking about that's on the town council?
Miss Ann?
That's her sister.
No sewing for me period.
Yes, yes.
Mm-hm.
And also my aunt helped me with that.
Um, the year  of the flood-  uh, my aunt has her wholesale license, and she wanted all the girls,  like anybody that came to her, um,  she had me to design prom gowns for them.
And they cost a little or nothing.
They just paid  for the dress.
She didn't make any money or anything off of it, but it's this company that she dealt with out of New Jersey, that I uh, sent all of my designs to, and swatches of fabric so they can know um, what kind of fabric to use on the gowns and what kind of beading and what color and that year  think I did eighteen gowns?
And they had 'em all shipped here.
I think I did two tuxedos also that they did.
So I've actually seen quite a few of my  designs come to life.
Mm-hm.
They- they make 'em there in New Jersey and then they send them to India to be beaded.
And then they s-  the people in India sent them back to us.
She did.
That's the kind of person- that's why I- I-  I'll be glad when you-  if you get a chance to interview her because she's a-  she's a good person.
She'll give you the-  she'll give you the shirt off her back.
I try not to stay too long.
Women and gossiping,  not too good.
Think the best thing that Princeville has going for them now is the Boys and Girls Club.
That's about all I can think of.
Um,  the church that my grandmother was a member of, they have  I think it's Monday night, but they have the nights for the kids.
But other than that, just them and- and the Boys and Girls Club.
It-  basically keep  the children  off the streets and out of trouble.
I wish they had something like for that adults but the adults really should know better.
And- they're old enough to know better and to do the things that they're doing.
I haven't really been in there but once or twice, but they do a lot of activities within the building.
And then they may take 'em out maybe once or twice a week.
Yes sir.
Mm.
There were tons of playgrounds in Princeville, I do remember that.
There was tons of playgrounds and basically just going to-  can't say friends,  basically everybody was your family members, but just going to somebody's house even if it meant them coming back to my house because my back yard was just like a jungle gym so most of the time and that's where all of the kids were.
At my house.
Let's see, Hide and Seek, hopscotch,  um, basketball.
Uh,  RD-NAME-2 got me started in tennis.
He was- They used to tease me and call me white boy, wanted play tennis.
Um- It was just me and Uncle RD-NAME-2.
Um,  badminton, think the best one though was playing in the mud.
I think I played in the mud til I was about ten.
Yeah I was building cause at one point I wanted to be an architect, so I would  just  wet the whole backyard up, and just dig up all the mud and make like my own little communities with the- the river and streets and- I was real creative with- with that.
And then my grandma would just drive up in the driveway and just run over all over it.
It's like, I told you about building this stuff in my driveway.
Mm-hm.
Now see we were- we were special kids.
We always had like,  one step above what everybody else had because other people would ride bikes.
We had scooters and then  Uncle RD-NAME-2 had  the scooter that he used to take us  riding on while everybody else was riding bikes, he was on his scooter and he had at least one or two of us on the back of it.
So everything-  that was RD-NAME-1's fault.
Everything that the other kids did we did but two times better.
She's like, okay, they have this?
I'm gonna get this for you.
I'm gonna- this that and the other.
That's just  the way she is.
Mm-hm.
They have the same zip code, but it's still like Princeville is basically  a neighborhood.
It's basically a neighborhood.
But you still have a lot of people, older people, that are over there when they address their mail, they will put Princeville, North Carolina two seven eight eight six.
And that's the same as Tarboro, so I don't know why they did it like that, but that's how a lot of people do it.
The only thing that separates them is a bridge.
That's it.
Only way in, only way out.
Well with the younger people,  they fight a lot, and I don't understand why.
Because you're separated by a bridge and under that bridge is the Tar river and you're all drinking the same water.
So I don't understand.
Really if you go in parts of East Tarboro you can look over and see Princeville.
Even though looking at it from the bridge's point, it's like a mile apart.
But it's like actually a part where it's nothing but fields where East Tarboro meets  Princeville.
So I don't understand why there's so much  animosity but my grandmother said it's- that was going on even when she was  a kid and she was born in thirty eight.
So she said it's been going on that long.
She always told me that Princeville won.
Anytime they would fall  She said that tougher people  come from Princeville because the-  the means of living there was rougher than what Tarboro- because we had to go to Tarboro for everything.
It's nothing.
The- the most your gonna find in Princeville is probably a mechanic  and a  store.
That's about it.
A couple of beauty salons.
That's about it.
That's what she said.
I don't know how to sing that part yet.
My grandmother  knew everyone,  and she  only knew them by their nicknames is what used to trip me out.
She never knew 'em by their real names.
She would tell us stories  of people, and  we're just sitting back snickering, like where do they get these names from?
And she's like, I don't know.
That's the only name I know them by.
Different- ch-  people that she knew, or that her mother knew.
It was basically if her mother knew 'em she knew 'em.
She just knew everything about everybody.
One thing that sticks in my mind is that because I didn't grow up in the house with  my sister, her daughter and I  were  really close because all of us stayed in the house together and my sister stayed with my mother and my father.
And  I used to mistreat  my sister, and I treated her daughter more she was my sister because I saw her every day.
And  my grandmother  told me, she-  she made us um,  get along with each other because we used to fight like cats and dogs.
And so you would never know who would  have to be the last person to do something for you,  and if your sister is the last person that has to do something for you, she's gonna remember  all the times that you mistreated her, and she may just pass you by.
So ever since then, my sister and I  are just like this.
And when she's not in school, when you see me,  she's two steps behind me.
She's not too far behind me.
She's twenty one now.
Mm-hm.
She's a junior  at North Carolina State majoring in Criminology.
I think she really wants to do forensic science.
She's always had an infatuation with dead people.
I don't know why.
She's really scary, but she loves dead people.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
She stays up there, and she sh- might as well commute because if I'm not up there, my mother's up there, so we see her at least two or three times a week.
I'm not back in school yet.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I love her school.
I was accepted and I didn't go.
I wish I had gone.
It's just  the campus- the campus is beautiful.
Um, the academics are good.
The people are nice.
I mean, I haven't seen anything at that school out of place.
Don't see anybody mistreating it- If it goes on, I don't see it.
everybody's happy go lucky, and it's like every time I go there the sun is always out.
It never rains, so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I had just gotten home from school.
I left school that  January of ninety nine.
So I only been home about nine months, and I often think that if I stayed at A and T I wouldn't have lost all my clothes.
But  um,  I left for  work that morning.
My grandmother and I left for work,  and she just told me to pack an outfit or two because  they're thinking about  that the dam might break and that it might flood a little.
And from what she told me of the flood in fifty nine it was only about two feet of water, so that's all that we  were expecting.
On my way to work that morning  I was in a car accident.
My car hydroplaned, so I came back home,  and that's when  I heard of everything that was going on and that they were trying to get everybody  out of Princeville, so I didn't have time to-  to go back to get  any of my belongings.
Cause it was too late.
For two weeks.
Oh well I grabbed some stuff before I left home that morning, and then,  because we couldn't go back  to Princeville, everybody went to my aunt RD-NAME-1's house.
That's where everyone  met.
Just stayed there.
And then got the notice of the water.
They were  sand bagging everything, and it didn't do any better and that the water was coming and it was coming fast.
At that point, I'm going to tell you the truth, I was selfish.
The only thing I was thinking about was like, what am I gonna do?
I'm losing all of my clothes.
I have nothing to wear.
Not thinking that  all of my family had gotten out and we were all under the same roof and everybody was okay.
I was worried about my clothes.
I was  nineteen.
I was gonna turn twenty that next week.
I was- that's the only thing I was worried about.
No.
No.
Heard about what happened but because I hadn't seen it, I didn't know how bad- They said it was bad, but I hadn't seen it for myself so I'm still thinking  maybe half of my house is under water.
And then when they showed it on TV where you couldn't see anything but water and power lines, that's when it really hit me that okay, everything is gone.
I think I cried for three days.
Everybody was, yeah.
We were all together.
Mm-hm.
Basically she set everything up like an assembly line because it was so many people in the house, like, x amount of people had um, cars.
And it's like certain times that they would open up the grocery stores and you had to line up to go in the grocery stores, and the water was off.
Um,  people down the street had a well so we would take turns  getting the water.
Um,  we took our baths in shifts.
Um,  everything was just like an assembly line.
And my grandmother being the person that she was, she  had one of the bedrooms and all of the kids were in the den- the- the big room I was telling you about?
And to keep us from disturbing  my grandmother, she had a refrigerator put down there and there was a bathroom already attached to that den, so we had no reason to come past that area messing with my grandmother.
Cause like, don't bother her.
When she gets in her little mood, just leave her alone.
Everything you need is right here in this room.
You shouldn't have to leave for anything.
Cause she would complain about the  smallest noise that she would hear.
Everything was an assembly line for nine months.
Mm-hm.
Cause you had to get up four o'clock in the morning just to stand in line for the grocery store because stuff was getting gone just that quick.
There was no waking up late.
There was no waking up late.
And she would tell you the night before, okay, this is how who has to do this today, and I'm not playing.
You will get up at this time, to  get everything done.
Mm-hm.
Um, they had on the news that  if  your clothes were still in your room that they could be washed  in ammonia,  and when I got back  to Princeville, the contractors that were supposed to have been tearing down the house, tell him I'll call him back.
Is it RD-NAME-2?
Okay.
Yeah when I got back in the house, the contractors that were supposed to been condemning the house,  they were in there stealing.
I'm not saying that they stole my stuff, but when I looked down the hall, they had armful of stuff.
Um,  but when I went in my room the only thing that was left in my room was a bed.
I had a-  two trunks full of sweaters.
I had two closets and there was nothing in either one of my closets, so someone vandal- And I mean it was just that quick.
It's the same day that they opened Princeville back up, we got up and we went over there.
My stuff was gone just that quick.
Had to start over.
That's when FEMA came in and they would ask you questions about a-  about how much money do you think you had spent on your clothes, and when I told 'em they didn't believe me but I kept receipts of everything.
So they didn't send me  all of it  but they sent me enough to get my-  my wardrobe started again.
And then my job  um,  gave me some money also.
So that was  more than enough for me to  get my-  my  closet started back up again.
Was buying plenty clothes and still didn't have anywhere to put 'em because I was still in her house.
Everybody used the same closet.
Also in that room, the den, it- it had a bathroom and it had a walk in closet.
H- how many people used that closet?
They had stackables.
Everybody had their own stackables that- with their name on it.
You put  anything that didn't fit in the- uh- that closet looked like a disaster area.
You just take and throw stuff in there.
There was stuff all over everywhere.
We had some cousins that were complaining about, you have on my outfit.
It was like, okay, we only have two so we have to switch up.
We can't look the same every day.
It was a- it was a lot of sharing clothes.
And if it didn't fit, we made it fit.
Mm-hm.
It was a long drawn out process.
It's a lot of stuff you had to go through.
A lot of people  got grants.
I don't think it was fair the way they did it because a lot of the younger people that could get out and work,  they received grants and they gave a lot of these elderly people loans.
Thirty year loans.
I mean tomorrow's not promised to anyone but I still thought it was unfair.
My mother, she received  mixing a partial loan and a partial grant and my grandmother had a loan.
And I didn't think that was fair to her.
Um, Church Street and Walston Street.
They're adjoining streets.
I can name  one, two, three,  four  on that street  that did out of about thirty houses.
Hm.
Mm-mm.
I mean cause m- people really had their minds pretty much made up.
That they weren't gonna move back.
And my grandmother was one of 'em.
She was dead set on-  on not going back.
Cause- She was more concerned about getting herself back.
She didn't care less whether anybody else came or not.
She was like I'm moving back to Princeville if you all don't wanna go, that's fine with me.
I'll move by myself.
Mm-hm.
It did, but it's a whole bunch of new people.
A lot of new people.
People from  Tarboro  taking up the opportunities that the Princeville people had.
But it was a lot of people in East Tarboro that flooded too, so a lot of them saw  all the new houses and things that were coming up in Princeville and they just moved over here.
It's like forget the East Tarboro and Princeville stuff, this is where we're moving to.
Cause I can say that the houses that they build in Princeville are a lot nicer than the ones that they threw together in East Tarboro.
It's like,  like they put up four walls and a roof in two days.
A lot of people really look forward to Fridays because that's when the football or basketball games, but it's basically, that's it.
And you would really be shocked that people hang out at Walmart.
You go to Walmart right now, you see so many people and they're not buying anything.
But people that have licenses to Rocky Mount.
It's just  twenty minutes.
It's-  go to the mall or the- or the movies there.
But for the people that is just basically stuck here, Friday is their only outlet.
I would  go the games or  to the movies  or the mall.
This is all in Rocky Mount or I would go to Raleigh to see my sister or either to Greensboro to see her daughter.
And I have-  I have a cousin at UNC Chapel Hill so it's basically visiting them because there's really nothing to do here.
Mm-hm.
But they're not doing anything or trying to get out of here.
They would rather stay here, not have anything to do than go somewhere and find something to do.
If they don't get the right people  in there to try to run it,  I honestly see Tarboro taking it over.
That's where they're headed.
That's exactly where they're headed.
Because they can't-  it's like we have to- well, Princeville has to pay  Tarboro for their water and when it's time to pay them they don't have all the money.
With as much as they charge  for the water bill over there they should have the money.
And they're always thousands and thousands of dollars short.
With anything they have to pay Tarboro for, they're always short.
And want- want an extension  on paying them, but I honestly see Tarboro taking Princeville over.
There's really nothing I can-  can do about it because I really see it happening.
I mean if that's the only way to get them to progress, then I don't see a problem with it because I don't live there anymore.
But something needs to be done.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I think they don't even think about it.
They don't care.
Half of the people  in Princeville, to me,  not to sound uppity or anything,  but they're uneducated.
They know about this stuff, but it's just like, I don't care.
Wh- what is that doing for me?
What does that have to do with me?