I am twenty one years old.
June first, nineteen eighty two.
Uh, yeah.
This year.
No.
Oh, it's just another day now.
It used to be exciting.
But now it's just like another day.
I just get older.
Last year on my birthday I think I got a- kind of got- My twenty first birthday  I was stuck in the house cause I had just had my baby.
Ugh,  and I was like,  I had her May the twenty sixth, and then my birthday was like five days later so I was stuck in the house.
They had- what e- what happened is they ended up having my baby shower and my birthday party together.
So,  because they were supposed to have my birth-  my  baby shower, but I had her early, so she was at her own baby shower.
So.
Yeah.
It ain't me anyway.
I don't drink anyway.
So.
I know.
I- I might just go somewhere.
Anywhere.
I don't know.
I'm on spring break actually now.
It just started yesterday.
We- we got out yesterday for spring break, so.
We- we're supposed to leave and go  to Connecticut  tomorrow, so.
Um, my- my mom's friend is up there.
I'm just going up there to visit him for awhile.
It's in Norwalk.
Mm-hm.
Cause that's- that's right there .
That's like, by N- by Norwalk.
I know.
Yeah.
Yeah, cause I sing in a gospel group, and so we-  we go  every weekend, we're g- we're going somewhere singing.
Somewhere.
Uh,  Chosen Few.
We all basically grew up together in Princeville in a little small church.
And we branched out from our youth choir  in nineteen ninety eight, and we did our debut  at our church and we came out of a gospel group.
Quartet.
We sing quartet gospel.
And um, ages ranging from-  The youngest,  he's twenty.
He just turned twenty.
And the oldest, I think she's  twenty six.
But  I'm the next to the oldest, and then there's one over me.
It's  three girls and three guys.
The guys are the musicians, and one of the guys is a singer.
We all grew up together in Princeville.
Walking distance from each other, and so.
Yeah, we grew up together.
Most of us are cousins in some way.
It's like,  I'm cousins with one of 'em and he's cousins with another one.
It's just kind of mixed up but that's how Princeville is.
Most of us over there are family anyway.
It's so small.
It's like everybody know everybody,  so.
Yeah, um, we have a drummer, a keyboard player, and a bass player.
Then um,  three background singers and I lead most of the time, so.
Mm-hm.
Whew,  when I was like two years old.
I started singing in a church choir.
Yeah.
I was two year- two years old holding a microphone that was bigger than me,  so.
It was- I was real young  when I started singing.
All of us were around that age when we started singing.
Mm-hm.
Yeah we grew up at  RD-CHURCH-2 Church  over in Princeville.
Um, the biggest church over there.
It's-  we got flooded too and we just rebuilt.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yes, yes.
Right on- right on the corner.
Yeah.
That's it.
Yeah, we grew up here in a church.
Basically traveling  everywhere.
Yes, every weekend we have to sing- Well sometimes it's around here.
Like every year we always sing at um- We have programs that-  that's like  annual programs that we do every year.
We have a anniversary in November celebrating like, we've been singing now for five years.
And so, um,    we basically have-  have  times that we come together.
Like we sing at the celebration that Princeville has every year.
And then we sing at the Prince- after the Princeville Parade.
We usually in the Parade, then we sing afterwards.
Um,    Martin Luther King banquets.
We sing at different things like in the community too.
Like, they-  If someone dies in the community, we always have a Caring and Sharing Program to raise money for their families, so we usually sing at those too, so.
Yeah, we've sung in Detroit,  um, Oh yeah?
We sung in Detroit, Michigan.
Um,   at the G.M.W.A.
Com- It's the Gospel Music Workshop of America.
And that's, um, I forgot exactly where it was.
We sung there.
I don't know.
This very very big building.
It was-  I don't know what it was.
It's some kind of convention center.
I don't know what it- We sung there.
Um,   we've sung in Maryland,  Connecticut,  um,      oh,  everywhere- New York.
Everywhere.
Virginia.
We- we um, sung in Florida.
We're um, supposed to be going back to Connecticut I think sometime next month to sing.
Most of the time we go somewhere singing, we always get invited back.
They'll go ahead on and book us a year ahead of time, they're like, y'all come back next year the next same time.
So.
We have a single out right now.
We're in the process of going into the studio to do a whole album.
But everybody's in school in different places, and  we always come home on the weekends to sing.
It's kind of hard to get in the studio during the school year.
So we're planning to go  um,  during the summertime when everybody's home.
Plan to go in the studio and do our album  to come out in- About  thirteen songs we have written  as a group, so.
Yeah.
I've written all of 'em except for like, one or two.
I think it's two of 'em that I didn't write.
Two people in the group wrote 'em.
I mean  I'd say about a year or so after we started singing.
Mostly when we first started singing, we sung other people's stuff.
We would rearrange it a little, but actually writing stuff, I didn't start doing that til a year-  about a year after we started singing.
I got tired of singing other people's stuff.
I had all these ideas in my head,  so.
Basically  in gospel music, you have to make sure that you don't say  anything that's  conflicting with the Bible,  so basically if like I see- read something in the Bible and something might come to my head or- or  a situation that I might go through in life, and I relate a song to that.
Just-  I mean  I have a song called Patiently Waiting that's like patiently waiting for the Lord to come and carry me home.
Then we have one, um,  called Chosen to Be Holy.
And I got that out of the Bible where it says, many are called but few are chosen.
And so  I mean I just really  read the Bible,  ideas come into my head.
It's somewhat like writing poetry cause you can relate stuff in the Bible to your own life and then  make a song out of it, and so.
That we wrote?
Um,  I think it would be  the one, Chosen to be Holy cause that's the last one that I wrote.
I wrote it,  um,    I wrote it  I think in  November of last year.
That's the last song that I wrote.
Honestly.
Um, the name of our group is The Chosen Few, so  that kind of inspired me to write that song, so.
And I just-  I- I mean I was sitting down, and I was  thinking about-  I- I was like, we don't have a song that actually  explains what our name means and- cause a lot of people don't really know.
And so that song pretty much does that and  explains why we call ourselves what we call ourselves, so.
Um- Um, it's a song that I- I rearranged the song called We Have Come This Far By Faith.
It's like a old hymn but  I put my own verses and everything to it.
And  it reflects how-  I wrote it after the flood- how  we went through so much stuff, but He didn't bring us that far to leave us there, you know,  and, um,  we'd just have to believe that he'll m- make, you know, he won't ever put more on you than you can bear.
And it's just  basically reflecting, going through the flood and everything.
Cause a lot of people were down and didn't think they were gonna ever come back up cause it was a bad time.
That was a terrible time.
Yeah.
I was actually at my mom's house cause we didn't get flooded over this way.
Because, um,  the water kind of-  it kind of got high over here but it wasn't to the point where we had to be evacuated.
Everybody around us was evacuated.
My whole family, both sides.
My dad's family and my mom's family.
And everybody was living with us.
So we still kind of felt it because I mean, I had a lot of belongings at my dad's house and my dad got flooded.
And, um,  we actually had about forty one people living with us up until February of the next year, and the flood came in, um,  September.
And we had people living with us until that next February.
That's when the last family actually left our house.
My- my dad's mom and dad.
So,  and my mom and dad have never been married, so it's kind of like, they're best friends, and he was actually living with us at one point.
So it's kind of crazy.
We had everybody.
I mean, but it was fun because  you got to-  everybody got to spend time together.
Even though it was a trying time, you had everybody there to really help one another.
And like, when Christmas came, we all were there for Christmas.
And we had two big Christmas trees and gifts were out in the middle of the floor from where- it was so many gifts cause everybody was there.
So  it was kind of fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I- I remember we got out of school that afternoon.
I believe it was  September the  twenty first?
I believe- I'm not sure.
It was either the fourteenth, twenty first, something like that.
We didn't go back to school until October the fourth.
That's how long we got out of school.
And then when we went back it was still about three hundred people living in the gym  at our high school.
It was my senior year.
And I was actually supposed to graduate-  I graduated that year, but I was working on the-  the program where I could graduate early.
And I- when we went back to school in October, we didn't know whether we were gonna still be able to graduate early.
And so I ended up  graduating in December  and c- going on to college in January.
Cause I needed some outlet.
It was so many people.
I slept on the floor all the time while people were there cause I had given my bed to my  mom's mom.
And so  it was g- g-  it was crazy.
My aunts and uncles, cousins,  gram- both of my grandparents.
All of my grandparents and  it was- my friends.
Some of my- the people that sing with us, they were staying with me.
Instead of staying with their families, they stayed over there.
It was so fun because everybody was just right there together.
And half of them with their- their families, wherever they were staying at, they came and stayed with us.
And everybody had their own mattress- Red Cross donated us some mattresses.
The little twin mattresses, and we would stack 'em up and then at night, and take 'em down for everybody to sleep on.
We have a-  a huge back den.
And my mom just took everything out and let everybody sleep back there.
It- The um-  My grandmother and my grandfather had my mom's room,  and then my other grandmother, she had my room.
And my aunt and uncle,  they had the other bedroom.
And then my mom's um- my grandmother's niece and her husband,  they were in the  front  um, den  of the house.
Then like, all the children and some of my aunts and uncles were in the  very back, big room.
And my friends all that, we were back there.
So it was kind of hard tryna get up in the morning, going to school, when you had about  thirteen people that had to be dressed before eight o'clock.
So everybody had to go to school, go to work, and we would have to- We had a schedule where  whoever got up this time, got up this time, and we had a schedule every morning in order for everybody to be out on time.
It was crazy.
Yeah, you just threw everybody off.
Yeah.
And for awhile like after the flood, the lights and the water were off.
I think for a period about two weeks.
And it was kind of hard cause we had to make sure we had jug waters.
You go to the grocery store, and the line would be out to the street.
They were only letting a certain number of people in the grocery store at a time because it was so many people that had to get in.
And it was kind of-  It was crazy around here.
My dad has children.
My mom- I'm my mom's only child.
My dad has-  um- I have a brother  and little sister.
Um, my brother's name is RD-NAME-2.
He's name after my dad.
He  fourteen.
Mm, yeah.
And my little sister is RD-NAME-2 and she's a month old.
Yeah, he- well he's down here.
He stays with his mom.
Um,  think they're staying Spring Hope now.
They just recently moved again cause they were living  in Spring Hope, and- but I think they moved further towards um, the Raleigh Way.
But he's still at the same school.
He goes to RD-SCHOOL-3 I believe.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
He's  quiet.
He acts just like my dad.
They- they are two of a kind.
They- they are just alike.
They walk alike.
They talk alike.
They laugh alike.
Everything.
Oh, they are just  alike.
He has a sickness sometimes if you look at 'em, and they laugh and they sound like the same person.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's a daddy's boy.
He call my daddy every day.
He expect my daddy to come way down there.
It's like a forty five minute to a hour drive to pick him up and then he has to take him back at night, so.
Yeah.
Yes, I'm a daddy's girl.
I'm a mama- I love my mama, but I'm a daddy's girl.
Sh- He told me I call his name like,  I'm the only person in the world that has a daddy.
And it's weird because my baby is the same way about her dad.
Yeah.
My mama said that  when I was younger  I used to like-  I was like glue.
I stuck to my dad like glue.
We would dress alike, take pictures every day.
So.
Yeah.
My dad, he's the type of person he got to be doing something.
He can't just sit still.
And my mom pick at him all the time .
They like night and day.
And they dated for nine years, and I-  I never understood that.
I think if my mom and my dad were actually married I would  pull all of my hair out of my head cause they like night and day.
My mama's very very outgoing, loud.
My dad is very quiet, laid back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's his life.
His children  and the paper.
Yeah, his wife.
I mean- I mean, I just know my dad is like very very crazy over his children.
Now I mean, he loves his wife to death cause they just alike too.
He's- They are so much alike- You ever seen two people that just m- were meant for each other?
It- That's them.
They-  Yeah but um,  they've been married for  almost two years now.
April will make two years.
Yeah.
Sh.
Mm-hm.
It's not a whole lot to do but when you don't have a whole lot to do you make something.
We always were into something.
Growing up in Princeville, I wouldn't have wanted to grow up anywhere else.
It was the best time of my life.
We used to- It was- It's fun because  everybody's walking distance.
If you wanna go see your friend, you can walk over there.
You can ride a bike over there.
Everybody was like,  close, very close.
And it's like a- a commun- a family community  and if-  like, my mom didn't have to worry about me going somewhere and anybody  doing anything to me and she not knowing about it cause news got around fast.
And everybody watched out for everybody's children, and it was just like, I mean  we- Everyday all of us- You would see about thirty five kids riding down the street on bikes.
We would just get together, go bike riding after school.
And then we had to do our homework.
After we did our homework, we went riding on the bikes.
We had to be in the house before the lights came on outside .
But I mean, it's like a family community.
Every year,  um,    for Vacation Bible School, we all would go.
We had a community baseball team.
It was always something to do.
We would find something to do.
If like-  it's not a mall in this- You know, but it's still  Princeville.
It's- I mean I wouldn't want to grow up anywhere else.
When I was growing up, it was-  I was just-  I mean, I would s- s-  brag about it because it was like-  it's fun because you just have everybody right there together.
Everybody was so close, and it was just nice to me.
I wouldn't change it.
We did some of every thing.
We had our own little dance team.
We would get on the playground during recess and do our little dance and everybody was standing around, and then we had um-    During the summertime mostly was the fun time cause  we had the whole day to do whatever.
And we would ride bikes and- Yeah, go on vacations together.
All of us would get together and go to King's Dominion every year.
We went to Kings Dominion.
I know it.
My mom- Oh, she would take us to Kings Dominion every year.
Then when it got time to go back to school, everybody would get together and go school shopping.
It was just fun.
I mean- To Kings Dominion in um,  w- um, Virginia.
It's not in Vir- it's in Richmond.
Yeah.
It's a amusement park.
Something like Busch Garden but it's fun.
Whole lot of rides.
Yeah we had different people in the community that would do trips and basically everybody would go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We j- We always did everything together.
It was not like, you could go somewhere and go one person, no.
If we went to the movies th- I- you would have a bunch that went to the movies.
If we went to the park, it was like, a bunch.
We were all getting together, go to the pool.
Different things.
It was-  It was nice.
Everybody was like, family.
Yeah.
I have a friend, we were raised together.
My great grandmother used to keep  a lot of children after school.
And so we- basically we grew up calling each other  brothers and sisters or cousins or something even though we weren't related.
We were raised together, my best friend RD-NAME-4  RD-NAME-1.
She was um- my great grandmother starting keeping her before she was even one.
And we still are friends.
We still friends.
We ended up graduating together and  this year we actually are graduating from college together cause she \we went to Fayetteville State but she um,  we still see each other every weekend.
We keep in touch with each other.
Then um,  I have a cousin by the name of RD-NAME-2.
He's my age.
And um, we all grew- I mean it's just-  If I would name I'd be naming for the rest of the day.
Cause my grandmother- My great grandmother,  she kept  like a lot of children in the community,  and it was like,  once we got out of school, we knew we were gonna see each other again before the day was over, so you know.
We would go home and everybody had a little schedule where they would do their homework.
After they did their homework,  they would um- We would just come outside and play.
Play um- My grandmother had a big yard,  so we had a part- It was guys and girls over there.
So we had a little part for the girls.
We had swing and little playhouse where we could play in the little- had a little kitchen in the playhouse and everything, and then she had a basketball court.
A little um, basketball goal, and the guys would be out there playing everyday.
She-  My grandm- My grandmother was actually  my second grade teacher.
And so-  See, she was my second grade teacher, so- Um, RD-NAME-4.
That's my dad's mom.
She retired last year.
Mm-hm.
She was my second grade teacher.
No.
I was a good girl.
I was.
I- Up until I got in middle school, I never got in trouble.
In middle school, I got to the point where people would pick on me, and I didn't know how to take it, you know?
And so I kind of got  that-  My daddy calls it the RD-NAME-1 Attitude.
And he said all of us are just alike.
He would tell me sometime, I don't know where I get you and your mama from.
But  I mean I got that little attitude.
Anybody that say things to me I would jump to the defense and so that was when I basically-  About the seventh or eighth grade,  but when I got in high school I  grew out of all that.
I never been the one to get in a whole lot of trouble.
I mean, I would say stuff, and  it would roll off- the- People would say stuff it would roll off my back.
Sometimes I- I think  around the seventh or eighth grade I kind of got fed up with it.
And once I did that and I would say something,  and I started myself getting in a whole lot of trouble, and I knew  when I got to high school,  I wanted to go ahead on- get out there and get out-   and graduate, go on with my life.
And I d- Yes.
Yes.
Yes, what happened?
I was in the seventh grade.
I'll never forget.
And um, it was this girl, she just hated me.
She said I thought I was pretty.
And so o- one morning, she came up to me and just pushed me for no reason.
And so she swung at me,  and I- We were outside in the um, front of the school, waiting to go in for the bell to ring cause you know people would get to school kind of early and just stand out there and talk with their friends.
And she swung at me, and I ducked.
She didn't actually hit me, and I remember I came back up and I swung at her and when I swung, I actually hit my teacher.
And I got in trouble.
They suspended me,  even though I didn't mean to hit him.
He just stood in the way.
I mean, I got in trouble.
They put- They suspended me.
That was the first time in a long time I ever got suspended from school.
They put- They um- five days.
They were gonna do ten, but I had a meeting with him, and  he said that he knew that I wasn't that type of person and he understood that I didn't do it on purpose, but they still had to do something.
I just -  I just couldn't believe it.
I actually hit a teacher.
And every time I see him now, I think about it.
I see him o- He still teaches at the same school.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
I'll never forget his name.
I hit him in the nose.
N- I don't know.
No, he wouldn't admit it.
I think I did hurt him.
I don't know.
My dad- I-  Every time I got in trouble in school,  when I was in the- I would call my dad.
I would tell 'em my mom was working.
Don't call my mom.
Cause my mom was the hyper one, she would get hyped up, and she was fussing, but my daddy always be like, you know that's wrong, don't do that.
And you know, you- normally it's the other way around, but with me and my dad, it was like the soft one, and I knew I could say, well Daddy, I didn't do- I didn't mean to do it, and I did this, and  he would believe me.
My mom be like, no, no.
My mom would be the one that  like,  go off the handle.
She just was  crazy.
When I was little she didn't play that.
My dad would always  be at my defense.
He'd be like,  well you know you were wrong.
Just tell me you're not gonna do it again, and- and I would be like, I ain't gonna do it no more Dad.
And he would be like, okay.
And my mom would be like,  oh you gonna punish me.
You can't talk on the phone.
You can't look at TV.
Yes.
And I'd be like, Dad, please don't tell mom.
He said, I won't tell her this time.
He would say that every time.
Then when I got older I would tell my mom about times I got in trouble, and she'd get mad all over again.
She be like, oh why your dad didn't tell me?
I said, cause he know how you-  I'd be like, Dad, you know how mom is.
Please don't tell her.
He be like, I ain't gonna tell her.
I don't want you to have to go through that.
And so he wouldn't tell her.
And now- now at times I would  be done talked to my mom and I would tell her about it, and she'd be like,  I knew it was something.
She said I knew it was too good to be true that you didn't never get in trouble in school.
And I would- and I would always get away with it.
And then I got to the point-   I think I was in the eighth grade-  All of my teachers, my mom did their hair.
So if I would do something in school she would know before my dad would and that- it kind of messed me up.
So.
Yeah.
See when I was at RD-SCHOOL-2 School, it was like, if I did something or  anything went wrong, my grandmother was right out there, so.
It wasn't-  And her house was in walking distance-  Everybody's house was walking distance from RD-SCHOOL-2.
I- I can't ever remember riding a bus when I was at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
You couldn't- You couldn't go to RD-SCHOOL-3 unless you lived in Princeville because it was such- you know, it wasn't really a big school when I was there.
After the flood, they expanded it and it became Princeville Montessori School.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And see, um, that was where they had free lunch.
Like during the summer, they would have free lunch for all the kids to come out.
We would all get together and would go there.
Then they had summer camp,  also at RD-SCHOOL-3.
And they would take us on trips and everything, we'd get to.
And I was in Girl Scouts.
We had our meetings at RD-SCHOOL-3.
So yeah.
No.
I mean to them it may be.
It's not the same to me because a lot of people after the flood  didn't move back into their homes.
And it's a lot of new people living in Princeville and then you got  the people that really were- the people that were growing up in Princeville are no longer over there.
And like all of my friends and stuff now are like scattered here and there.
And  but we still keep in touch with each other but it's different now because- I mean it's just not-  Violence has picked up over there.
They got this little  Princeville gang thing going on.
It's - It's not even.
They think it's serious.
It's not even that serious.
It's really not.
They-  It's like-  It's Princeville against East Tarboro which is only a bridge separating them, and they seem not to be able to get along.
And so  then they got- I mean, I don't know what-  what they doing.
It's crazy.
You can't even- People shooting and all that- It- That- It wasn't like that.
You could go to sleep and leave your door unlocked all night when I was living in Princeville and not have to worry about anything.
Now you gotta worry about somebody breaking in your house or- It's crazy.
It is-  I- it's- I think it's that  younger crew  that- that these day- gangsters and- don't even know how to spell it.
That- It- It's kind of-  It's crazy.
You have a lot of people that moved  out of Princeville because of that or didn't move back to Princeville because of that.
A lot of people changed where they were living once they did move to Princeville because it's areas of Princeville that are  more prone to violence than others.
And so a lot of people don't- didn't move- Like,   it's o-  it's two trailer parks that's side by side.
It's Lakeside and Long Pine.
That's on the far end- Yeah, that's on the far end of um, Princeville.
Long Pine is not really that bad.
Lakeside is terrible.
And Southern Terrace, that's another  trailer park.
They- The mayor- I don't know where she stays at.
Yeah, .
I think so.
I don't know.
It's o- I don't know.
I don't know where she stays.
Uh, you're talking about RD-NAME-5?
I don't know where she stays.
I-  I didn't- I don't really- I didn't really know her until she became mayor.
All the other mayors have always stayed right there in Princeville, and I've always known 'em- or grew up with them.
Um, I had the last mayor, RD-NAME-3- RD-NAME-2, I knew all of her  grandchildren.
We grew up together, and her children grew up with my mom and  all of them.
So I already knew her and think before her it was um,    some other guy.
He was from Raleigh somewhere, and how he got to be mayor, we don't even know.
And yeah.
Lakeside- Yeah, and  they  Pine Hill Court was like,  a community apartment complex, and now a lot of guys take it and sell drugs out of the apartments and stuff.
It's- it's not like it used to be.
It's- it's really not.
You got those guys that  go to the city for one summer and come back and think they from the city.
Yeah, and- and it's just- Uh-huh.
N- It's just crazy.
Half of the people-  half of 'em going to prison anyway or already there.
Or in jail or something.
They think it's a joke, and  they really taking Princeville and turn it into a little bitty New York.
It's not even like it used to be.
Basically-  My mom t-  told me that the-  the little  rivalry between Princeville and East Tarboro has been going on since they were in school.
But I think that they would just be like, well meet me by the trees, and we gonna would fight, and it would be over, you know?
But now guys getting guns and stuff.
It's gotten to the point where  it's out of hand.
Every time we have a basketball game, So  because you stay at East Tarboro, you stay at Princeville, y- you don't like me.
That's not a reason to d-  And half of 'em are family.
You know?
Cause Tarboro and Princeville, most of the people are some kin to each other or somehow related.
But  you got cousins fighting cousins because they stay in two different parts of town.
Yeah.
And it's like,  Tarboro and Princeville are not even two miles from each other.
Basically about two miles, and they fighting over a little raggedy bridge that might break down any day.
I mean, it- it's kind of crazy, but hey.
My cousin, he got caught up in it, and how he did  I don't know.
He just like, kind of  flipped the strip cause he was kind of quiet when we were growing up and had a lot of friends and then, as he got older,  he started hanging around-  It was  some guys that came-  Okay the guys that kind of started it  were the older guys.
And it's like, their brothers and stuff picked it up.
And now it's gotten out of hand.
It's kind of- The older guys that kind of started it aren't even really into it anymore.
It's these little nine, ten, eleven year old guys that's into it you know?
And they've taken it out of hand.
It's just crazy.
Yup.
He's in prison.
Yeah,  beca- but    he'll be out this year.
Well he'll be out- He didn't- h- get but like,  six or seven month.
He-  They- they say he beat up somebody but he said he didn't and you know?
No he's not- He's my age.
But it's- Yeah.
He with the wrong people at the wrong time, and this and that.
The guy recognized  him cause he was with the guys.
And so he was the only one that really got in trouble for it.
But he  claims he g- he's turned over a new leaf now.
He ain't really even into it.
Which most of the older guys are not even into it anymore, it's just sometimes  guys come over from East Tarboro and shoot and stuff, and then bullets hit the wrong people or bullets get shot  at the wrong people, and  then it starts all over again.
Like it'll get quiet for a little while, and then something'll happen that spark it back up.
Just like um,  guy, he was a senior in high school  got killed last July- No, July of  two thousand and two I believe.
Last year,  two years ago.
He got killed um-  He was out there with his brothers,  and a guy  came through shooting at somebody else and ended up shooting him.
And it sparked it back up all over again because supposedly a guy from Princeville shot another guy, but he was from-  He hung around the guys from East Tarboro, and so it was like a big mess all over again when the bullet wasn't even really meant for him.
And so.
Yeah.
And he died his senior year.
He never even got to graduate.
It was in May.
That's when it was.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
He was like two years under me.
Two, three years under me.
Um,  they call him RD-NAME-2.
His name was um,   think RD-NAME-3.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Probably so.
It's a lot of RD-NAME-1 too.
Yes.
RD-NAME-2 RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2-  RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-2, RD-NAME-1  and  RD-NAME-1  is Yes.
It's- it's a lot.
And we got a big family.
Yeah.
They so kind- somehow link with the others, so.
Yeah.
Yeah, cause my dad's mom was a RD-NAME-1 before she actually married my grandfather who's a RD-NAME-2, so.
it's somehow- You will find out.
Everybody's r- Everybody around here's linked to somebody.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
My grandmother just died  the twentieth of last month.
She just died- We just buried her last week.
Mm-hm.
Yeah my mom's mom.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
She- That was Big Mama.
She-  That was our grandmother.
She kind of raised  all of her grandchildren up in Princeville.
She stayed in Princeville.
from the time she was born in thirty eight until when the flood came in um,  ninety nine, two thousand, she moved to Rocky Mount, which is about fifteen minutes or so from here, but she stayed in Princeville from thirty eight  til about two thousand.
Yeah.
She was born and raised in Princeville, raised all of my aunts and uncles and my mom  in Princeville.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-4.
Mm-hm.
She was um-  Well, wh-  when I was younger, she was  um-  No, when my mom and them were younger she worked at RD-WORK-3, a nursing home.
And then um,  once-  I think she started working  at the Department of Social Services, Edgecombe County um,  when I was  about two years old.
And she worked there up until last year.
Mm-hm.
She was switchboard operator in the Department of Social Services.
Uh, kind of sort of.
That was my baby.
Me and my grandmother were very tight.
And so  I mean I just-  my mom says I have a  thing for people.
I'm like a people person, and I really really  enjoy helping people, and doing anything that I can to better a person's life.
And so my mom always said I got into the right profession cause she said  I feel sorry for everybody.
And I'm a giving person, and it's like I would give somebody my last before I see them go lacking.
I'll go lacking myself.
And I've always been that type of person.
And so my whole family is like that.
So.
Right now I'm doing my internship at um ,RD-WORK-12.
It's a um, homeless shelter for families with children, and I um, do case management there like, with the families do case plans and try to get them out of there, um, help them pay off old bills, get- help them find jobs, build up a resume,  do different things with the families.
They help them- help them get their kids back in school and do everything like that.
And um- That's in Greensboro.
Mm-hm.
I go to school in Greensboro.
I go to RD-SCHOOL-4.
No, I'm at Greensboro.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're on Spring Break.
I come home every weekend.
I'm attached to my family so I come home every week.
I mean it's  school.
No it's my last year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, kind of.
I plan on moving back home to work though.
After I graduate.
Mm-hm.
I wanna open up  a teen prevention center.
Because um, this area is kind of high for teen pregnancy, teen um,    like, substance abuse and stuff like that.
And I kind of wanna open up something  to kind of open-  open up the community-  back up the community to the children because like, a lot of these children is growing and they don't know- really know the meaning of community like we did.
We- we were  raised  in a community that was like, loving and it was like a big family, and they don't really get that anymore cause it's so much other stuff that's going on around them.
And I just wanna open up a kind- it's kind of like a center or something that's dealing with a lot of teen issues.
and stuff like that.
Family counseling and  teen pregnancy prevention and  talk- helping teen mothers and  different things cause it's a lot of  parents that's- th- teen mothers that's still in school tryna graduate, don't have anybody to keep their kids and so they drop out.
And then like, w-  the drop out rate is high around here because so many teen mothers have to  k- get out of school in order to take care of they kids and- I mean around the flood it seemed like everybody was pregnant.
Around- When we went back to school, you saw so many pregnant people.
And a lot of people didn't graduate or  didn't come back to school after they had their babies, and so.
It's daycare but a lot of people don't have the money.
But the- the economy is so bad right now  that jobs are not like they used to be and people don't have the money to pay, so instead of-  Not- I hate to say it that way but  instead of working, a lot of people just get on welfare and get content.
You know?
And- It's not a lot of jobs-