Uh,  i- let people know- help them to know  some the- the,  um, disasters that, uh, people have been through.
Very important.
Mm-hm.
No.
But I lived here for  about eighteen years, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
In Tarboro area.
Uh-huh.
No, uh, on the outskirt of Tarboro, uh, in a mobile park.
Mm-hm.
It was still in the city limits.
Mm-hm.
In the s-  s- surrounding area.
Mm-hm.
You want me to start off with  when-  growing up, or-  Okay.
Well see, I was actually raised around in, uh, Speed area.
So that was like eight miles from here.
But, you know, just, uh,  um,  re- um,    growing up  w- m-  in my parents house, we, uh-   well they-  you know, back then, you know, you would love to come  to town cause we was out in the country, right?
And, uh,   getting to  come to town with my parents, you know, you were glad to see other people.
And, uh, so a lot of time we had some relatives that live in this area, so,  you know, just come to visit them, give me a chance to, uh,  s-  what we may say, see what the city was like.
So the country and city, you know, we called this was a city back then.
Uh-huh, and uh- and the country was a lot different, you know, cause we  basically work on the farm.
And, uh- but getting to the city like see a lot of city kid, well you may say, they did other thing other than work on the farm, you know.
You know, they have a, uh, lot of, um,  things to do like, uh,  swimming in the swimming pool.
We didn't have  s- things like that.
Um, yeah, the- Uh, I guess it would be somewhere around the sixties.
Um,  somewhere around ten.
Ten.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
My name is RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2.
And I was  actually born in Pitt County.
Yeah.
Uh, um,  that's towards, uh-  well I was born in RD-ADDRESS-2 in Pitt county, so that's  not too far from Greenville, North Carolina.
Right.
And, uh, so my parents,  they moved a lot when they were sharecroppers.
And, uh,  me and my sister, we was born in Pitt- but I ha- have also three brothers, and they was born like in Edgecombe County.
So we was like back and for- This was- uh, January the sixteenth, nineteen fifty-six.
Mm-hm.
No, one sister.
uh, the both of us was born in Pitt County.
And my three brothers, they was born in Edgecombe County.
And my parents were also born in Edgecombe, so  this is-  basically they-  where they was born.
Area they was born in- around in Speed area.
And, uh- but they was like back and forth sometimes.
I don't know why they did that, but I guess when  they were sharecroppers, you know, and, uh, uh,  certain times, I guess  their particular sharecropper had 'em doing certain thing then maybe they had do other things, and  working with the other people.
But then actually, e- uh-huh?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-huh, about eight miles from Tarboro.
RD-ADDRESS-2, but it was like twice they had done that.
Which place?
Okay.
RD-ADDRESS-2 about     I g-  I guess between ten and twelve miles.
Cause you would run right straight through it from,  uh, sixty-four  would run you right to, uh, RD-ADDRESS-2.
P-I-T-T, Pitt.
Pitt County.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh, yeah.
M-  They started as sharecroppers, and, um- but the last time we moved  back, after my sister was born, from, uh,  Pitt.
Well I guess they did that about three time, because it's two brothers are older than I am, so they was born in Edgecombe.
And then they moved to RD-ADDRESS-2,  so that's when me and my sister was born.
Then after my sister was- some time after she was born, then we moved back  to Edgecombe where my youngest brother was born.
So, um-    so in the sixties, I guess it was in the late sixties, that's when they stopped sharecropping, started getting, uh,  other jobs.
Um, and, uh-  and that was exciting, you know.
Coming off the farm,  which- even though we still lived in the farm area.
And, um, my, uh,  dad, he started being a custodian, and, um,  a f- um,   p- t- with m-  RD-SCHOOL-3 School.
It was a high school.
Cause back then it was segregated.
Uh,   Yeah, I was-  let's see, I was about in the  fifth grade, so I guess I was about ten or eleven when we moved.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I hated it.
I hate it.
I- I know when I was,  um-  like when I was about eight years old,  that's when, um,  my, uh, brothers they was old enough to work, my two oldest brother, and they had to,  you know, picking cucumbers and putting in tobacco and stuff like- So I really had to, uh,  look out for the younger ones, and make sure the  house was clean and what I would c-  whate- what I could cook, I  did it, so I really started  when I was about eight years old.
And, uh,  back then, that's when you used to wash clothes in the  tub and then  rub it on the rub board.
I had to stand on a bucket to do that.
And, uh,     but, uh, huh?
Uh, uh, yeah, we had a garden.
Uh, we used to grow, um, butter beans,  the whole wo- cabbages.
We-  we basically ate f-  of the farm because,  you know, um,  store was-  wasn't as close as they were now.
So you had to come  into town.
So town was  like a good ways from where you stayed at.
Okay, using, um, Speed f-  I say Speed for example cause that's uh-  well I could use RD-ADDRESS-2 cause I was about eight years old then.
when I actually started d- knowing things and doing things.
Um,  and, uh, once I would finish cleaning the house- huh?
Okay, from Speed to-  well, eight miles, eight mile.
And, um,  basically you had to go into Tarboro though, because, you know, s- Speed r- I mean,  Princeville really didn't have  many stores,  you know, not  shopping.
They had little convenience store, like that.
But basically we had to go into Tarboro, uh, to find shopping.
Well my dad always had a car.
Uh-huh, h-  he always had a car, um,   that we would use to ride in.
And, uh-  but s- you know, still,  by the income they was making, and then  st- uh,  they was working like  six days a week, you know, so  on Saturday evenings,  uh, they would  get off work a little early  what you might say, the boss man was letting 'em g- get off of work a little bit early.
And see back then  they would pay 'em a little  something each week, and it was no more than about fifteen dollars a week,  and then settle up tie at the end of the year.
That's when, um-  after they sell the tobacco,  that's when they get like a-  a lump sum,  what they-  the boss felt like it was worth, what  they worked for the year.
But they still deduct what they gave them  at- for what they use up  through the year, you see what I'm saying.
But they was worth more than what they got, but  They- they worked more than what  they got.
Yeah.
Well they t-  they s- Uh, well,  like I said, they worked through the year but still at the end of the week,  um,  it was just like,  uh, the boss would say that  um, this is a loan to you,  get- pay at the end of the year, you know.
Mm-mm.
cause after- cause they had to use-  they had to use what  they could get from-  through the week to, uh, survive.
Um,  you know, other thing other than what we ate from the farm, what we grew on  in the garden.
We had hardship, um,  it's-  i- that's why I hated it, and I remember when I was in the second grade, that's when I made up my mind that I would  go to college.
Cause I wanted to better myself, and, uh,  do more than what I was doing.
I hated farm life.
And, uh, Everyth- we did everything that you can to a farm.
Um,   we, um,  picked cucumbers.
I mean, they seemed like they had fields and fields of cucumbers  then  peanuts.
We had to shake peanuts and put 'em on a stack back then.
You stayed dirty all the time.
Um,   it wasn't  any bathroom.
It was  outside toilets.
So you had to, um,  use pump water to, um, fill tubs, take into the house.
And you warm your water up on our stove or the heater.
And, uh, then after the  peanuts would, um,  get dried out,  a lot of time we had to take  big bags and bags of peanut to the house  and shell them all.
And, uh-    and your fingers would be hurting  from shelling so many peanuts.
Then when it time for the season for tobacco,  you did some of everything to tobacco, you had to have a tobacco bed.
Then you have to, um,  pull the plants from the tobacco bed and set-  set out the tobacco.
And then when  t- some of the plants die-  died, you had to replant them.
When they grow a certain length,  then you had the sucker tobacco, and all that do- Sucker.
That pull the sucker out of tobacco.
It was,  um-  what's the best way to describe it?
It was unwanted tobacco.
I'll say it that way.
It was unwanted tobacco that grows up on the leaves.
And every time you would pull one off, break off the top suckers.
No it's dif- entirely different from shucking corn.
But    it was like the-  I could describe- it was like  the flower part of the tobacco, but they used to call it sucker.
That'a what I- That's how it was brought up in, uh, It was hard for us to go to school like we wanted to.
A lot of times  I had to stay home, but-  and I used to cry cause I wanted to go to school.
And, uh, if you don't mind saying this, I say seen a lot of time when  the white kids was going to school, but y'all had to stay home because we was the main ones that have to run the farm.
And I used to s-  say, well,  if this supposed to be sharecropping, why are we doing all the work?
It was only the black ones doing all the work.
And, um, Yeah.
Yeah.
i- Well, it's supposed be sharecroppers, right?
And, um, like I said, the- the- Uh, you had the- the-  what- what-  the ones that we call our boss man, he own this, uh, whole farm.
It's just one family- white family that owns this whole farm, which a lot of different black  neighbors work on this farm.
It was the RD-NAME-3 Farm.
That one up when- that's when we was staying in RD-ADDRESS-2.
It was, um,  mm,  RD-NAME-4.
RD-NAME-4 Farm.
Yeah, a lot of- a lot of those black kids they really had to stay and work on the farm.
Um,  they even had a law back then that, uh,  we had to make sure we put in-  put in the t- all the tobacco before we go to school because  c- school really didn't  open for us til about,  uh, in September, about the middle of September.
And, which as-  a lot of kids were going back to s- well,  like I said, the whites were going to school earlier, and, uh, Well that's- that's the way they- that's the way they have  at our school, that, uh,  we didn't start school at a certain time.
It was like the fifteenth of September.
And, um, School.
Right.
When really all the farming was done, but mainly they wanted to get that tobacco in before a certain time.
Okay.
Cause see, not only you j- ha- after you finish  settling tobacco, then you got to  break the tobacco with a mill  mostly,  break the tobacco and the womens loop it up  on- on-  had to loop it,  loop it on sticks Okay.
And, uh, Oh, I- I mean, you young, and you may not underst- know what I'm talking about.
But, uh,  we had to loop  to- tobacco- tobacco sticks  with  twine.
We had to tie the tobacco in  and put it on  tobacco sticks.
Then we had to hang 'em up in this barn, to cure.
That's how it was back then.
Um,  after they cure  then we had to take it out of the barn  and put it in what you call a pint house, so that we can tie all of it up before it go to market.
And you smelling all this tobacco, it making you sick.
Uh, and handling all that tobacco is,  you know.
And then some of it we had to shee- sheet it up.
And then, like I said, after we do all that,  and  we get it ready for market, then we could go to school.
But still we had  other  things that we had to do on the farm to stop s-  you know, to  not to go to school everyday like,  after that,  that's when we had to pick cotton.
And, uh, I used to hate cotton.
I said who ever named  picking cotton by the pound.
You know how light cotton is?
And you had to pick it by the pound.
And then they used to weigh it on this, uh-    on this, uh,  cotton-  this cotton gin thing.
It made li- I call it  made like a -  a- a giraffe  to weigh the-  they use to weigh it, put some weight on  some poles.
That's all it was.
Put some weight on some poles to, uh- so that  they could pay us less, but they was getting a lot more for they money.
The boss people, I'm saying they got more for your money.
Money, but  they would never show  no receipts, uh, how much  we had worked  that day for.
Well to b-  uh, well cotton.
You had to  pulled it out of bud of the cotton ball.
It stresses your hand.
When you get ready to take a bath,  it burns so bad.
And then y- yeah, the water would burn your hands so bad from picking cotton.
So  I've- from eight on up til they say when we stop farming, I think I was like  thirteen, uh, thirteen or fourteen.
Uh, Well like I said, any time work have to be done on the farm we had to stay out.
And I used to cry my mom and dad, why we had to stay out,  it's cause we have to  work.
We had to work.
Yeah, about thirteen, fourteen.
Excuse me.
Yeah, a-  I mean, I missed a lot of days from school, and I believe I coulda had gotten a better grade  and, uh, um, Well sometime two or three times-  days a week.
Uh-huh.
And, um-    and then a lot of time, when we got out of school, we had to, uh,  take off our school clothes well they called school- your best clothes, and put on your work clothes, and, um, and go b- out in the field to work.
And then,  knowing that we had homework to do.
So  when we come from the field,  we'll work until dark.
You know, then- and-  and a lot of days, you know,  when,  uh,  daylight stay until about eight, nine o'clock, and then you gotta come home and try to-   try to, um,  get your homework, and  clean yourself up, and go to bed.
By the time you do all that, it time to get up again.
And, uh,  a lot of time when they pull you out from school, you  you have to be up by five, five thirty.
Yeah.
And a- so you that you could be in the field by six.
If I was going to school, we have to, uh, um,  get up, be on the bus by seven,  yeah,  about seven.
It was basically in- like I said, a certain time was when-  when getting that tobacco in, and- and y- and w- they started school back uh, um, s-  the middle of September, but  get there in the mornings, it's  school s-  you- uh, the bus would come about seven.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, sometime when we  weren't working, uh, we played with  neighbors, you know, sometime you-  back then you had to walk so far.
You see a few houses, but it was  much distant than they are now.
And, uh,  but when we did, we had good time, but it was basically on Sundays.
Uh-huh, a- and most time it be after church because chur- church was a big thing back then.
We- you could go in the s-  meet a lot of people.
I-  I loved to go to church back then, where you  meet some  other kids and different people.
Uh, RD-ADDRESS-3 in Speed.
Mm.
Uh-huh.
And then, uh, maybe sometime on Saturday evenings when we could go and visit my mom's sister w- rou- and my granddaddy.
Was around them a lot.
Uh,  you know, we  played- made up games to play, you know.
I've- I was telling kids the other day, I said, we-  I said, kids now they don't know how to have fun.
I said, we used to, um,  use corn to make doll babies cause we couldn't afford- a lot of time we didn't- couldn't afford all different stuff.
So   we used to m- have-  have a corn  and, uh-  and when you shuck it, made your own little dress, and- and, know, with the-  with the, um,    little strings from the corn, that was the hair.
We used to, uh,  have cans, you know, when you buy cans of food.
We would,  uh, make a hole through the can, and, uh, put a- a wire in it, tie it over our feet and used to walk up  top of cans for high heels.
Um,    we used to, um,  roll old tires when my dad  couldn't use that tire anymore.
Used to push the tire.
And then sometime he would buy us second hand bicycles  that we c-  have to-  about five of us had to share off one.
You know,  and, um, I didn't like that bike.
I fell and hurt myself.
I- I didn't try it anymore, a- but my sister and brother, they love it.
But I didn't like that bike cause I fell and hurt myself, you know.
And then, the oth- there was my u- uncle and my aunt that raised my daddy.
He would like call them mom and dad cause they took him in when he was six months old cause his mom died after he was six months old.
So we were like very close, and, uh,  we,  you know, could walk to their house, and we played with them a lot.
Yeah.
S- Saturday evening.
And- but you know what the best time was?
Was around Christmas time when, uh,  when they would    kill hogs.
And back then, they would  have poles  that they'd hang the hogs  on after killing.
And when they  clean the hogs up, they had built,  um,    uh, grills in the j-  in the ground then  that they  would barbecue the hog on.
They didn't have the-  the fancy grills that they have now.
But they made their own grill in the ground And put the,  uh,  uh, wood-   firewood down in the ground.
And  then they had some wa-  Excuse me.
Let me cut this off.
I forgot I left that on.
Um,  and then they'll  use some, uh,  and w- where they-  the w- type of wire they use to fence in hogs.
Okay, and then they  would put that across  the hole that they had made for th-  to barbecue the hog.
And, i- Yeah.
Pit, yeah.
yeah, pit.
A-  Yeah it was like a pit.
A pit that we could cook to hog on it, right.
But it made the best barbecue.
And seemed like  that's when the neighbors get together.
Every time when somebody cooked the hog, that's when  everybody come and  help that person.
So that brought a lot of love, and, I mean, everybody love each other back then.
We used to help each other,  you know.
Uh, uh, and, uh,  cuts, and the-  the- they killed more than one hog.
They had one to barbecue, and then they had one to make sausages and, uh,  other smoked meat from, uh, bacons, and-  that they kept in the smoke house.
They prepare a lot of things  like that before the winter come.
So we had  this  like-  that's w- what we did for meat.
Then we used to have chicken-  chickens  and, um-  that, uh,  ha-  that we ate,  through the winter,  chicken pot pie, all  different type of  way you can cook chicken, and-  and, um,  but we had fun doing it, you know.
Getting together  helping this neighbor preparing for the winter.
And then we'll go to another nei- they-  Then neighbors come and, you know, help us  do the same thing.
Um,  and then with the garden,  know, like,  my mom, she,  uh,  saved a lot of stuff-  preserved a lot of stuff.
Uh-huh.
So, uh,  That's how we made it through the winter a lot of the time.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Well, in the area, uh-huh.
Somewhere between October and December, they prepare a lot of stuff like that Mm-hm.
That was fun.
And, uh, Yeah.
That was about the best memories that I enjoy.
Oh, okay.
Oh, okay.
And, um, so,  like I said, um,    getting back to when we moved from RD-ADDRESS-2 to Speed, uh,  that's when I started going to RD-SCHOOL-3 School,  and, um- That's on that, um-    I guess that's  about  five miles from here  on  RD-ADDRESS-2 Highway, RD-ADDRESS-4  right here.
No, that's what you call a county school.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
About in the fifth grade.
Mm-hm, cause, um,  that's when we moved from, uh-  from, uh, RD-ADDRESS-2  to Speed.
And, uh,  my dad, he started his custodian job in, uh-  at RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
And my mom    started as a maid at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
So  I was happy about that cause  seemed like they had worked so hard too, and wasn't getting anywhere.
So this mean they was making a little bit more money.
That means that we can have a little bit more , you know what I mean.
And, um-    and we was-  uh, well we were still staying in a- on another man farm, but we wont working the farm, so we st-  so we had to pay rent.
And, uh,  while we was, uh,  going through high school, you know, I still tried to find odds  jobs to do because  try to help them.
Well, I'm talking about older now.
I done got older now.
Uh, about fifteen because, um, um,  they had summer programs for the,  uh, students that wanted to work.
And I started working at RD-SCHOOL-3 School.
That was about my first job from the farm life.
And, uh- and they help sch- like  help clean-  cleaning up the school for the next school year, and, um,  packing up books, different- lot of stuff like that.
And, um,  then at, uh, seven- sixteen,  I could be about seventeen then, I started driving  a bus.
So- Yeah.
And you know what, they didn't have automatic buses then.
They had- a- all the buses was straight shift then.
That was so hard.
They gave us a,  uh, training-  a driving training test on the bus, and it was so hard.
But, you know, the money sounded good for  making my own money, so I- I just-  I think I  failed the first test, and then I tried again.
I said, I'm not gonna  give up.
So  next time, be a lot better   I started driving a school bus, uh-huh.
Well, I was driving the elementary sch- kids.
Yeah, I was in high school.
Okay.
Yes, okay.
It was like  seven, eight drivers for the  elementary school,  and we would-  uh, uh, we had different areas we had to pick up the kids,  and this  went up to six-  one moment-  what grade did it go  from, uh,  it wasn't,  um,  tryna think did they have kindergarten then.
But this was like in, uh,  early seventies then,  so, um,  I'm tryna think they had kindergarten.
But anyway, it was-  if they didn't it was from the first grade til the-  I think they went up to the fifth or sixth grade  that I was picking up the-  those ages of kids.
Those kids of that age  group.
And we would- once we  got them to the school, RD-SCHOOL-3 School, then all us would board one bus and drive to the high school.
And that was at RD-SCHOOL-3.
And- but I d- am missing a whole big school, cause we did attend  um,  Conetoe High before it closed down.
Uh-huh.
And then once they closed that down,  uh, we went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
That's in RD-ADDRESS-2 Uh-huh.
So that's when I started driving the but when I was at  RD-SCHOOL-3.
And, uh,  I graduated from high school, then I went to  college at RD-SCHOOL-5.
Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, on a regular basis then.
Yeah.
Um,  like I said, we stopped farm-  farming  unless you-  it wasn't like a must then.
It was like if you want- want to, if someone come and ask you wanted to help out on their farm.
Uh, this was after  we stopped sharecropping.
So we stopped sharecropping when I was about thirteen or fourteen.
And, um, so when we moved, my mom and dad got this job.
You know, they were working ahead in town.
And, uh,  sometime, w-  work on the farm, helping- helping out with someone else, you know, so I could have a little summer money for school for to buy school clothes and stuff like that.
But it wasn't like  I have to cause we wasn't  actually farming, you know what I mean.
So that felt good.
Yeah.
And, uh- and you get to keep the money,  then use it like you want, and,  um- but basically I  bought school clothes and maybe  save a few change.
It still wasn't much back then, you know, but  it- it felt good making your own money.
And, um, Yeah.
I mean,  it wasn't as many houses as it is now.
It was a,  um-  it was quite- it was  like a big nice community, cause like I said, I wasn't used to a-  a lot of houses together, and you seeing a lot of black people all together, because in the country,  houses was-  you had to walk  almost a mile to see somebody.
And, uh, so a lot of the time when m-  sometime my dad may have time to come  over town  an- and, um,  get things, and  we would come over to Princeville and visit.
Certain ones that he know.
And matter fact when we was farming,  he used to come and pick up  a few people to help  farm.
He used to come all the way from RD-ADDRESS-2  to Princeville to pick up few people that wanted to  do some farm work to make them some extra money.
And he would-  he would used to get up real early to come pick up s-  uh, I can't even remember their name, I know they dead now because they were older people that  wanted to make some extra money.
And he would pick them up  way before six o'clock cause that's when  work would start.
And, um-  and then  once we finished in the evening he would  bring them home.
Mm-hm.
Almost every day, yeah.
Yeah.
And sometime I would ride with him.
Yeah.
And, uh, Uh, like I said, certain parts was wooded-  wooded areas, and, uh,  um,  if I'm not mistaken- I don't think Princeville School was  there then, or if it was, maybe it mighta- s-  small.
But  it was- like I said, it was a few-  the ones I know was like related to me.
And, uh,  we used to  come and visit them  during the summer time, and that's when we used to have-  they used to cook all this food.
It was about food thing back then.
They used to cook all this food, and seemed like so many-  they, uh-  people a lot friendlier then.
They used to- seemed like  everyone in the neighborhood would get together.
They would like have outdoors, uh,  cookout back then.
And, um-  and then  I mean w-  whoever walk up  they was invited.
They didn't even have to get invited.
And that's how I m- I met a lot of the-  the- the citizens that was in Princeville.
So,  uh, before I moved I had knew a lot of 'em, so  lot of 'em wasn't strangers to me, so  by getting acquainted with them, they help got me acquainted with  their friends, their friends got me acquainted with their friends.
So  it was- it-  I- I had a good time with just- I just- just love to talk and just getting to meet people.
And, uh,  it didn't matter how it looked,  I mean, even though it was- like I said, a lot of wood there,  and then there was the Mavers-  Maf-  Mathers-  uh,    Matheson store,  uh, that was here, and we used- uh-huh.
Um,  I don't think it was Glenn's store then.
It was his father or s- Uh-huh.
Uh, it was, um- It was still Matheson, but what was it called?
Glenn and Ma- Gl- uh,  I think it was old man Glenn and Mas- Math- Matheson.
It's named after- um, his son named it after him, yeah.
And, um,  oh boy-  and, uh, it was good to see,  uh,  black work- you know, owning their own store.
Y- that's when I basically saw most of,  uh, few- what- few business that was here,  and, um,  had a few blacks heading their own thing, cause it w-  it was a  shoe shine store.
I mean,  man used to do his own show shining, and  like I said,  a barber.
Um,  and it was good to see some- you know, the black store, they  moving up,  you know, wanting to be  successful.
Um,  And I- and that really made me excited cause I said,  it's good that somebody what to do s- something with their life, you know, other than working i- in the fa- on the farms all their life.
And see it had gotten so  ar- I guess what you call mentality  that some people had thought that's the only thing they could do was farm life.
And, uh, s-  cause a lot of them quit school.
A lot- lot of qu- a lot of the people    quit school because, uh,  they were missing so many days from work, uh,  because they had to work on the farm, so so- a lot of the people quit school.
Th-  that's what mo-  a lot- made a lot of people  quit school back then,  because they were missing so many days, of work- and they have to work.
And, um, but I was-  I said, I'm'a keep going cause I wanted to-  I said, I know this ain't gonna be for me all my life, I-  you know, I said, it gotta be something else for me.
And, um, So that was like a inspiration when I was seeing  other blacks, uh,  and, uh,  plus teachers,  you know, had black teachers, and-  And, uh, it was m-  mainly  black teachers that really influenced me too, and oh yeah, Doctor RD-NAME-3.
Uh, he was-  well he on this side of-  well he's in Tarboro  across the bridge.
And, uh,  He's- he was a black doctor.
He deceased now, but his wife is still living.
And, uh,  tell you the truth, I think that was the first black doctor that I ever  known.
Yeah.
And, uh,  then-  back then, it was only one funeral home that everybody used to go to.
I mean, have to handle their family- deceased family members, and that was RD-NAME-2.
Uh-huh.
Related to th-  no.
Uh-uh.
Sh- uh, they related to, uh,  the RD-NAME-3.
The RD-NAME-2 and- well I was married to a RD-NAME-2, so I'm not related.
I'm a divorcee.
I was married to a RD-NAME-2.
I think they in the family though, related in the family.
That I could do something  better with my life than to work on the farm.
I said, I didn't wanna quit because  al- um,  like I said, I always had some teachers-  teachers that, uh-    I thought they was mean,  but they said, what-  they let me know how important it was to get a education.
Um,  you talking about in-  i- high school, or- Oh, I took, uh, business administration  and accounting.
Uh-huh.
And, um,  which I  got a BS degree in,  business administrating and accounting.
And, um,   I  went in seventy-four and graduated in seventy-eight.
Mm-hm.
And, uh, Um,  because it was a-  a large market,  and-  and I felt like  if one thing didn't  do for me,  I could find something else to do,  uh, in another-  in-  in the same field but  doing something different  in the same field I took up  because  I had really wanted to be a CPA.
And, uh,  but-  which I shoulda kept on going to school,  you know,  um, Accounting?
Money.
Uh,  bi- it w- it was, uh, big money in that area.
And, uh,  which I had a opportunity to go but,  um,  I got married before I got out of school.
And, uh,  which I shoulda had waited.
Uh,  now I s- you know, when you see a lot of different things, now I wish I had waited, but, I don't regret it cause I got a beautiful daughter.
And, uh,  um-  and my, uh, ex-husband, he was, uh-  he got his- he was- he was going to RD-SCHOOL-5-  he graduated from RD-SCHOOL-5 too.
And, uh,  he got his job, uh,  as a manager  for RD-WORK-4 and they transferred him to the home office in Charlotte, so that's where my daughter  was born.
And I stayed there for about three years.
Then I moved back  to Tarboro for about-  let's see, I moved back back in  eighty  three.
No, it was about eighty,  about eighty,  seventy-eight.
Yeah, about eighty  I moved back,  um,  in the eighties.
Failed marriage.
And, uh,   then, um,  I, uh,  got a job, uh,  as a credit manager at this, uh, clothing store at the mall  which was Parkhill mall.
And, uh,  the pay wasn't that well, so I- I guess I stayed there about a year, and then I  started as a, uh,  a ins-  a insurance salesperson, uh, representative  with RD-WORK-9 Insurance Company in eighty-three.
Then because of my agent, I moved back and did insurance agent, so,  um,  he was also worked with RD-WORK-7, so he  got me interested, and, uh,  so I joined.
And, uh, after the interview I thought  the income was good.
And I've been with them every since.
Twenty-one years.
Well, going on twenty-one years,  now exactly twenty years now.
And, um,  I moved  in Princeville in  eighty four.
So  wait a minute.
no, no I take that back.
I moved in  Princeville-  it wasn't eighty four.
I was-  I think it was eighty six, so that put me how many years is- six- f- n- seventeen years.
So I've lived about seventeen eighteen year.
And eighty-six and, um,  the people here is,  um-  is real nice, um, We've been- I moved from Tarboro the mobile park that I was talking about, and, uh, into a