It's hot- the next day it's like- like And then the next day it's like warm, and then next day it's cold.
Uh-huh.
Exactly.
And w- it- it's- it's- You have to get used to it.
I'm used to it.
Yes.
I'm nineteen years old and- and a guy I know, just like, when it winter time, some days it's cold.
Somedays it's really cold.
And the next day might be like,  sixty degrees.
Like, okay.
Should I-  Or it's seventy degree- Should I take my coat off or should I keep it on?
Because it's still December.
You know?
You don't- You don't know.
It's all- And people- and like older people, they always catch me whining and everything and like we have- we had a whole lot of deaths because-   you just have to-  your body just have to get  to it.
It- it's horrible, but  I'm used to it.
I'm used to it.
No.
And- Hot.
Uh-huh.
Cause last week it was ridiculous it was so hot.
We was like- in my dorm room, I was like, okay.
I got air conditioning.
When I go in my friend's room I'm like, last I looked on the calendar, it said  March not  May.
And when May get here, no, when Ap- No, when- end of March?
So it's gonna be on fire.
Mm-mm.
Exactly.
It's March.
Just weird.
But it's- it's normal.
It's- I go to sch- I go to RD-SCHOOL-2.
It's right down the street from UNC-G.
Directly down the street, walking distance, so.
Psychology.
I'm a Psych major, so.
Yeah, my first year.
First year.
I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 High School.
I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, so.
Even though I moved, I coulda went to um-  Matter of fact,  um,  their brother, he's their head principal at North Edgecombe High School, that's our rival school.
I coulda went there but uh,  I was like, no.
I'm used to being here.
I'm used to people in Princeville.
We all grew up together, so I went- I went- I stayed, and I- My mom said, well you better get your license, you know you gotta drive far so I got my license and I drove back and forth everyday to school, so.
It was good.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
To Battleboro, North Carolina in um- I still-  Yes, and At times I was like, oh my Lord I'm tired of driving, but  I couldn't see myself going there because  my mom- And then like, every evening- I think I   maybe six or seventh grade I think or-  Sixth or seventh grade, one of the-  my mother, she still got up every morning and um,  brought me to my grandmother house  so I could catch the bus in Princeville still to go to um, RD-SCHOOL-4, that was the middle school here and RD-SCHOOL-3 too.
But  RD-SCHOOL-3 my ninth and tenth grade year was kind of okay cause I would go to a friend house  to catch the bus to go there.
But  after  half semester of tenth through twelfth I drove myself  from there, so from Battleboro so.
It wasn't a problem or anything.
May.
May.
Just May, so.
Yes.
Yes- It's alright.
I'm glad to be away though.
I am.
I'm glad to be away.
Um, but like,  d-  now honestly, temperature-wise,  well Greensboro is worse.
Yes because-  Okay, back east, you know we got the coast, you know, we kind of  closer to the coast around here you know, but um, Greensboro be closer to the mountain.
It's like, when it snows  it snows.
Like it was- it was on some freaky stuff, and you have people that's from New York and they used to just snow.
Oh no, I said, no we have- we have ice.
We have ice, not snow.
They was like, no.
Cause they can't understand like how when it snow, we shut everything down in North Carolina.
They- they- this city girl, she was like, what is the problem?
She was like,  when it snow y'all shut everything down.
She was like, it is not that serious.
I said, yes it is for us.
We're not used to no snow.
We shut  every- She said,  oh no, honey.
We would truck- She said, only way we get out of school was a blizzard.
If it's not a blizzard, we're trekking through the snow.
I was like,  North Carolina?
Oh no, honey.
Baby we shutting everything down.
Yeah.
I think I- Honestly I believe because we're not used to snow.
It's just no something that just really like,  I mean we always- we got snow but it's not like a lot.
Like, woo, snow, you know?
But- No.
We can slide a little bit, but it's not enough to be like, oh my god.
Like, like,  like the girl she was saying, like, she- like, snow be right here honey.
We gotta crawl over there, do whatever we gotta do, put on our hiking boots and go to class.
I'm like, oh no, we don't play that.
We would shut the whole  city- whole town- state down for a month.
I mean but it's good.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
See that's what we mostly get.
We s- When we get snow- when we get snow we are so happy.
Like um, everybody be like- cause like when it snow at school I'm still like,  we always  be like, we gotta go to the grocery.
We gotta get some groceries.
I'm like,  the girl- She's from Jersey- She was like, why- why are we- she said, why can I- why did I go to Walmart?
Why did I go to the grocery store and it was so packed?
Like, what's going on?
I said, it's gonna snow.
She was like,  and?
I was like,  you wouldn't know nothing about this so don't even worry about it.
But it's just- it's just how it is here.
We do that.
We're not used to snow at  all, but- No.
No bread.
She was like, I ain't get no bread.
I was like,  but I did.
I knew in advance, go to the grocery store- it's- it's just- uh-  I'm like, um,  think it was September when hurricane- I can't- ha- hurricane- I can't remember which one it was, but it was just this year and um,  it's a girl um, she's from Buffalo, New York.
And uh, she was like,  Oh my God,  what is going on?
I'm so scared!
What is-  ha- What is a hur-  Why is the wind-  Why is the building- wh- why is it shaking?
I'm like,  calm down.
We calm on the f- hurricane?
We were like- people from North Carolina, they was like,  what's wrong with her?
And like the girl's like, she was like, y'all ain't stressing about um- She was like,  now y'all stressing about snow but when the hurricane come y'all s- she said, y'all too calm.
And then this is the girl from DC- Jersey.
She was like, uh-huh.
She was like, I got to go home.
I'm like, it's nothing.
We sit there, let the wind blow- it's gonna blow down everything.
We're used to it.
But when in a snow storm, it's quite different.
So it's like, It's just one of them things.
We deal with hurricanes.
Y'all deal with snows.
And we deal with ice too.
Y'all deal with snow.
They- They was going off.
They was like, oh my God.
Like,  do we supposed to go  in a- in a corner?
Or a lake- I'm like, it's not a tornado.
It's a hurricane.
You know?
She was like, d- do you we have another shelter place to go to?
A tight building- I'm like,  just sit and be still and be calm and  it'll pass, but you   .
We was dying laughing like,  okay.
Is- is this- are they really serious?
But  it was like- it's al- we d- we can deal with hurricanes.
Uh-huh.
Yes, like, it's- I- Um,   besides Floyd.
But you know what's funny?
Floyd was not so bad, but  when the water came, like, it was like, you know the dam gonna break.
And you know, evacuate, but it- it- it- it was- th- and then I was like, okay, but it wont- I seen worse hurricanes  and we didn't have a flood.
Like,  um,  Evan something like,    a tree'll fall down, you b- hear it, be like, what's that noise?
Like, something falling?
And you walk outside, it'll fall  right beside your house but it don't touch your house.
Things like that.
Like, oh my God.
They wanna put God to help their tree not to fall slam on the house, you know?
And it's just like, um,  people that die from  things falling on top of the houses, you know, people getting trapped under stuff, you know?
It's just a lot of things, but  besides the flood it was totally different.
It was a totally different thing.
I did not- Um,  well, what we do most of the time if a hurricane come, we always go to my grandmother house because  my grandmother and granddaddy, they are old, so you know, it-  They used to it, but still, you know, anything would happen we would rather be there with them if something happened, you know.
And I'm- uh- And um,  like the day-  the day- Let's see.
I think the day afterwards um,  brown  around her house um,  it was already water.
You know, it was like,  when did- when the water started flowing about in Princeville?
Because it's not- it's not-  we're not in a flood zone.
You know, and I was like, mkay.
You know?
So  everybody outside  walking over puddles of water like-  I mean like,  back in the back part of Princeville, like,  some people houses were like- the road- road here, road on ground,  and the water was like this.
I was like,  why is water standing up that high?
Unintelligible and the next day then like,  towards the night time um,  my um, uncle's wife, she's very close friend of um,  our mayor's um, step daughter.
And um, she called us- she was like, if I call you back in like three or four hours and tell you to-  she said,  we think that the-  that the dam's gonna burst, you know.
We do- they trying- they go down there- they have people volunteering in Princeville, going down there packing up um,  like sand bags to try to keep the water in, and um,  she's like, if I call you back,  you know, you know you need to evacuate.
You need to just get out of there.
And like, she called me back like,  twelve or one o'clock, and she was like,  you gotta go.
And when she called,  that's when the fire department came around like,  had on the intercom, evacuate, evac- pack up, pack up, leave, leave.
And by the time we got up, um, we was going down the road, and um,  it was a big open field  and way way up back over there is the Tar River, you know,  and um, we started looking.
We was like-  My grandmother stops.
She was- I was like, whatchu stopping for?
She was like,  you see that water rush across there?
I was like, you- we're gonna have to go through this water because  I am not getting trapped.
You know, and I was like, grandma if you don't wanna do it, I will drive this-  this car  across  this water, you know?
And um, the reason why we didn't know it was so bad- the- I mean the-  the water was flowing so- like it was a river, just like a little-  like a little river just flowing across there.
And uh, we saw a man going across there on his bicycle, so we was like, it ain't that deep but long as it don't- long as the current don't pick the car up, we're good.
So my grandma she went across there.
And like, people kept going across there so it was like a pathway so  it wouldn't be so bad and um,  we got to um-  They told us to go to uh, my high school I graduated from, RD-SCHOOL-4.
And we got there, everybody was like, what is going on?
Like,  it- we never went through that.
It was just not known for  a flood like that  in North Carolina, you know.
It- it was- it just wasn't like, real, you know?
Like,  okay.
And um, next thing I know, um, we got out there they told us that  they had cots and everything, b-  blanket, um,   emergency foods and stuff that you need to eat and whatever.
And um, we was like, is this- You know, still hadn't hit you.
Is this real?
Okay, the next day we woke up, like-  think it was a day and a half people called and said like, people were standing-  I got some family members that they were um-  my aunt and them,  that-  One of my aunts, she cannot swim at all, but  she just got off work.
She went home and like, she said she woke up, she was like-  she-  I think she- she stepped down.
She felt water on her feet.
She was like-  And she was like- she just started panicking.
It was water already in the house like- she was like,  God help us.
She said, I cannot swim.
Help us.
But um,  uh, happily um, people will ride around in Princeville on boats, and um, they came to her house.
She said they couldn't get to them because something was blocking so  apparently they had to swim.
And she was like, some- the kids there they knew how to swim but she didn't.
But so she said that um-    My aunt's um,  husband friend help  her-  hold her and swim with her  to the boat,  and it was a lot of people on top of houses, you know?
They-  Of course it was the water lifting you up.
You go outside the water it's just gonna lift you on top of the house, and the um, helicopter was coming to get people off the top the roofs and everything.
Um,  it was quite like-  we stood out one day- me and my mother, we stood outside at the house cause it was so boring.
Like, we were there for so long and- you know, cause it's- most of the people in Princeville- where-  where would we go?
So that's when our church came about that um, we had family members that stayed in Rocky Mount, either Greenville, somewhere around the surroundings of  Princeville and Tarboro that we would stay with cause  um,  parts of Tarboro didn't get flooded.
Downtown really did, but it wasn't as bad as Princeville, you know.
That wasn't but for the grace of God that He just didn't wipe everything out.
And uh,    uh, we stayed  with some people from my church in Rocky Mount and everything.
And they made- you know, welcome home and everything.
But um, like, at the school, um,  we had to sleep on the floor.
You know, my g- for one night my grandmother had to s- she had to sit up in a chair because  everybody was so like-  Cause it was the first day- first night like,  why are we at a high school at one o'clock in the morning, sitting here, doing nothing?
And um,  it was so many people cause we had nowhere to go.
Had nowheres to go.
And um,    um, she- she sat up and want, you know, the chair, but the next night,  for the old- elderly people they had the cots, the blankets, whatever you need to help them out.
Or they would put them somewhere in a nice facility for them to stay because you can't- a old person cannot lay on the hard  cement floor.
We can deal with it.
Cause my mom was like-  I was all, I can deal with this.
This is nothing, okay?
And um, we did that, and um,  like,  the next day  the people that w- that came on helicopters, um,  we would stand outside,  and like, they would have nothing.
Not even no shoes or anything, or just, maybe the clothes on their back, some of might had on bedroom shoes and everything.
Or some of 'em- I don't think some of 'em had on shoes.
They didn't-  They couldn't save nothing, you know?
Only thing you could do if you laying in your bed asleep, you gone in your pajamas.
First thing you do, you gonna swim and get on top of the house.
That's the only thing you can do.
You know, and um,  they came with nothing.
Um,   um, we couldn't-  we didn't save anything, you know.
I don't think- like the- Matter of fact, the day I was telling you the um-  what's the-  the hurricane wasn't so bad in itself, but next house to my grandmother,  like down the street, like,  you know, water was already under her house.
We was like, huh?
Like, this is not possible.
So my mother, she's-  uh, my mother, my stepdad and my uncle, they walked through the water to go in the house,  see what they could get.
This was before the actual flood came.
And um, she got my book sack, um, some- different other stuff, a little clothes for my grandmother.
Because the water hadn't actually came in the house, but it was under so  right then I known that um,  that she would eventually- they woulda just  remodeled her whole house just because  water is sitting underneath the house.
But not thinking that the whole town was gon- You know?
And like, when we came back through like- I guess it was because the place was condemned, couldn't nobody go through Princeville.
Only way you can go through there um, if you sign a paper saying,  if anything happen to me,  we would not be held responsible.
And um, certain people took risk and they went through there, and they was like-  But a  week and a half went by- I think a week- maybe a week or  four or five days went by-  we went through and um-  like just to see  like,  like what hap-  Is that house over there?
You know, like hold up.
Why is it over there?
And it's like, I could not believe that  Princeville would have a flood.
It was- it was-  it was just weird.
Like, Princeville having a flood?
Well my old house, um,  mm, nothing.
It- it was like,  okay.
Like um,   it was-  Well, hold- I'm'a take it back.
My grandmother house- This is her foundation.
Like, the house was like,  leaning like- And I'm like, how did it lean that way?
And we would go in the hou- we w- the door was like jammed sh- it was shut tight so we couldn't-  so we had to break it open or something.
I went um- my uncle went to um-  he went and touched the wall.
He went like this,  and when he pressed his hand, his hand just went softly like-  It was so soft.
It was like, you could do this and you made a little hole, and he was like, okay.
And um, we was like,  Lord, and um,    I guess the houses, uh they would stay swell like,  just cause so much was- and dried and it was swelling.
My grandmother back door, we had to like- we took a axe and like chopped it down, broke it down, to try to get in the back room.
I mean nothing back there, you know, it was stuff in the room, clothes and everything, but it was like,  you looking like, oh my god, and like, you could see them house like,  because it had dried it started molding and stuff.
And um,  you couldn't touch the stuff.
You couldn't- We have to- We had- They gave us gloves.
Masks to put on to go through the house, you know.
But it was just like, God, like, I cannot believe this.
You know, and um,  her- i- i- it was her- her refrigerator was like,  in the living room?
I was like, oh God .
It was- it was- it was- Oh my Lord.
And my granddaddy, he actually um- he works-  he worked on um,  lawnmowers, um, some cars, but just mostly lawnmowers and stuff like that.
And like, they was everywhere, all back in the tree-  One was like,  leaning on a tree.
It's like,  oh my Lord.
You know, you had- st- things that came out of your house was  in the trees, in the bushes, just everywhere all over  anywhere it could go, you know?
And um,   people would come back,  go down the street and find like,  their dogs is laying there.
They're like,  is this my dog?
Down the street?
How did it get from here to here?
But and a lot of people just- before they left- the- they knew when it-  um, fire department came through, was like, telling 'em to evacuate,  they let they dogs go.
Cause everybody- and one person I know, he um- when he got back, he was like,  it happened so fast I didn't think to let my dog go.
But he was like, but he got it- he was just-  He was still in the same spot, but he had a chain.
He was like- he was dead just laying there like- and he was like,  God you know?
from- uh- for awhile, you know, we thought like,  why would this happen?
But to go back and see it now, be like nothing just happens.
My grandmother's- she's um- she had a two bedroom house, one bathroom, small living room, small kitchen, all of us like into one- just ridiculous,  and now you go to her house-  Her house is not sitting in the same space.
It's kind of further back.
It sit up.
They gotta build up because now it's considered in the flood zone.
Still don't believe that, and um, um, she has  two big bedrooms,   a bathroom and a half, so the- so the next- the second- second bedroom has an extra, b- uh- you know- a sink and a um, toilet in there.
Nice size shower.
Now she has um,  my granddaddy has a handicap shower so it's just one shower, standing up  that she can-  with a handle she can put him in there.
When he had it before the- the-  flood happened, he had a stroke.
So he stopped working on lawnmowers and everything and um, that was a big challenge in itself to try to get him out of the house  when it's water already outside and everything.
And um-  and um, it was-  it's weird.
Like you go through now,  my um, uncle, he has his own-  his own trailer, three bedroom, living room, nobody there with him,  just by himself.
He owned it.
It's his.
And like, he was staying um, on Main Street.
He had a house they was renting, you know-  renting it, you know?
So he'll never own, but after it happened  he got his own place, so  you- you lost your memories, but  you gained something.
You know, my grandmother, she has central air, central heat.
She never had that.
She used to have th-  have a big air conditioning unit.
When the winter time came, a wood-  one of the-  the heater things you have to put wood in there?
And you know, once it's heating up, it's hot.
You can't control it because it's wood in there.
She don't have to do that no more.
You know, she can't bend over, pick- going out and chopping up wood- putting in there.
Now she got central air and heat, she don't have to worry about it.
And that's a lot of people that just living better than  ever- that you would ever think they would live.
But um, it happened for a reason.
It happened for a reason, you know.
A lot of people in Princeville really didn't-  you hadn't-  some people had nice homes and certain ones didn't.
And if you had a nice home, you know, it could be- something could be wrong with it and- it need just-  just be done over again.
But um, they happened.
People got a chance to own-  own homes that they couldn't own for years.
They'd been staying there for over twenty years and never owned-  still renting.
You know, once you get old, you would love to own.
And they were still renting.
And now,  people- o- the older people, they're staying in nice um- Right by the town hall, if you look back over there, you find the River Apartments over there?
That's all for elderly people.
Nice apartments.
Got better- They had- The apartments they had before was alright, but now the apartments- Oh my God, they look so beautiful, you know?
And um,  our town hall  looks good.
You woulda saw the ones before, you woulda been like, really?
And the- Actually, our old town hall was um,  my um,  Head Start.
And um, I look in and I'm like, God.
We really moved up.
We really moved up.
I mean, it is so beautiful.
Like,  just to sit back and look at some of the old stuff, like, mm.
That looked bad.
Now it looks great.
And I think-  Um,   Everybody- every-  everyone has nice homes.
Um,  just  look at like- Ah, that looks nice.
You know, if you'll ride through- Oh yeah, Princeville School is uh, Princeville Montessori School now.
It is so big.
Like, they got departments.
I remember when I went to um, Princeville Elementary School, um,  it was small.
We used our um-  our cafeteria for like, our auditorium.
It was just small and um,  we always had love there, but like, now you look at like,  we- God has really blessed us that the kids have something that- really they can say,  I went to Princeville Montessori School, you know, it looks-  it looks  great.
I was like, mm,  Ten years from now, I said I wish I w- I wish I woulda had that when I was younger, but um, they have nicer busses there.
I guess just  most of what stuff would-  Princeville um-  we got grants to just rebuilt the whole ti- town.
You know, celebrities and everybody helped donate money just to get us back on- just to- just to  get us back moving, tryna  make it better than what it was.
And um,  and um,  I go through there and right through there now, and like, I had bought for my friends,  um,  and it was such a coincidence.
The one girl  that I'm real  um, good friends with them,  she said-  she said, where you say you're from?
I said, I'm from Princeville, and she was like,   did you know um, that  we um-  She- she stays in Zebulon I think.
It's near Raleigh.
And she said, do you know that  our camp made us get up one morning and said, we're going to Princeville to help rebuild the town.
And she was like,  we was-  uh, we had our masks and gloves on, helped picking up stuff from people houses and everything.
And uh, I was like, really?
It's like,  you came through, you know?
And like I took her for my fall break, I took her home, and she was like, we came- we went to that house- we went to that house.
And th- And she never heard about Princeville, and she stayed in North Carolina.
And she was like, we did- we um, took and threw trash away out of this house.
And I was like, really?
She was like,  I remember coming over here.
She was like, I don't remember what house, and I was like, this is my grandmother house.
And she was like,  you got to be kidding me.
She was like- She did her face.
I was like, why'd you do that?
She was like, cause um, I looked at it when we came through the first time.
We was like, oh my Lord.
And like, she was going there, she was like, it look good.
It look real good, g- it look good.
I was like, we came from a long long long way, you know.
And um,  point blank,  Princeville has a lot of history.
Like, we're the oldest historically black town in America like,  to be established by freed slaves.
And you know, people wouldn't know that but  it's a blessing that it's still standing and that- and it looks even better than it did before, back in the eighties you know?
But um,    it's just- it's nice when you go up to like- mm.
Like I can stand right there and be like-  I stayed at my grandma house, be like,  is this really true?
Cause I remember when we used to come- oh my God.
Like, and then once a time if the wood go out, it would be cold.
Point blank.
It just would be cold.
It's cold you know?
But um, now we'll ha- she get- she gotta get used to it now.
She like, oh I gotta hit the switch and get some heat, I didn't- you know-  girl I got central air now.
I'm like, it's great.
It's- it's- it's really good that she don't- they don't have to suffer, you know,  what  just how it was before, you know,  but.
Mm-hm.
My grandmother house.
All the- Uh-huh.
We was already in Battleboro, but see  most of the time,  when um, back then, when hurricane come we would go to her house.
Just to be with them case anything would happen.
We would pack up come like torna- hurricane come.
Pack our clothes up, and when I get out of school, she get off work, we go over there and stay for how l- however long it last, we would stay there.
You know and um, we did that all the time.
We did that  after- after we moved from-  even we was in Princeville um,   before we moved um,  we would do the same thing.
Or else she would come to our house, but now um, before  Hurricane Floyd- before after that,  we would go- we would always pack up our stuff from Battleboro, come here-  stay here til when it over, and then we would leave and go back home.
So, we did that.
We actually- we did that, so.
Yeah, exactly.
Because um, it was hard for us,  it was myself, my little sister, my mom, my stepdad,  my grandmother, granddaddy, and my aunt, we was all in the house there, you know.
Cause my aunt stayed in a trailer in Princeville, and you know they say it's not safe to stay in a um- uh- trailer when a hurricane cause it's liable to blow over.
And um, um,  then so I told you before that night that the water started coming up in the yard, we were like,  what is going on?
You know, I'm like, that's never happened, so  you know, not thinking to yourself like something- God is-  something's about to come through.
You know, because we- we never seen the water rise like like, mkay, you know.
I mean the water was coming up, so we was like, okay we need to go to somebody else house.
So we went- that's when we went to my uncle house.
But coming out of the house,  um,  the water- like, it was hard at-  My granddaddy's in a wheelchair.
It's hard to lift him and try to put him in a wheelchair  when it's pouring down rain and r- the rain- from the wind, just- it's we was like- We was like, oh.
And coming out of yard, and we was spending time just tryna get out of the yard.
My mom was saying, uh- like when we got to my grandma- said, something is not right.
Like what is going on?
Like, then the next day, we went there, and my mother went back there- that's when I told you they got- she got my book sack and everything.
And she was like,  this is not right.
And then that night it was on.
It was  on like-    and you know people- people-  ugh-  was crying, you know.
Then  you know- and like,  people um,    you know, they would call  to their- either their sister's or brother house and they couldn't get answer?
That's because they already left.
But you didn't know what school they was going to.
We got, you know, different schools in Tarboro that we had to you know, find  shelter for.
And- and it was so many people like,  people were stranded everywhere.
They didn't know where their cousins were.
D-  Even, you know, um,  like my uncle, his um,  some of his coworkers,  they would come to his house every morning,  you know, drop him off at work and check on everything,  and they couldn't find what school so they started going- they went to the h- other high school, our rival high school North Edgecombe,  um,  other schools around here in Tarboro  and um-  and try to post letters and say, if you see him, if you know him,  please call- And finally um, somebody from our church  came to my mother said, RD-NAME-2, do you where RD-NAME-2 at?
And she was like, yeah he staying with so and so so.
She was like,  well,  you need to call- go look on the board-  look outside of the school, um, and-  cause they had like notices of people, they couldn't- they don't know where they at, you know.
And he called and he told her, I'm safe.
I'm in a safe place.
They was like,  we glad because you know, we would had to take another step and see  were you left in the house?
Like,  where- where were you?
You know, but we w- That's my mother.
That's my mother.
Uh-huh.
My uncle.
Uh-huh.
So um, they were you know, posting those like, s- you know,  it was- it was- it was horrible, but um-  And like y- Uh-huh.
Yeah, it's not- Well, we big- we big enough.
Majority- majority of- Yes, majority of them.
Or they stay on the outscursion of Princeville.
Uh-uh.
She's married.
She's a RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-4.
RD-NAME-2.
And they stayed in Princeville their whole life.
RD-ADDRESS-8.
Uh-huh.
They s- Oh my.
They been there they whole life.
Okay, my  grandmother, she's- I think she's sixty six.
And um, matter fact,  no.
She sixty four.
She sixty four.
She'll turn sixty five next y- next w- next week.
Our granddaddy, he- I think he's seventy one.
I think seventy one.
They been there their whole life.
So they know- they just know how it is regardless, so.
I only have one sister.
She's nine.
So she don't- she doesn't know anything about Princeville besides her-  we coming to my grandmother house.
Cause she w- she didn't-  she went through the flood but it's like,  okay.
For her it's like,  okay.
Aw man, the house is gone, grandmother.
What happened?
You know?
The flood took it away?
She like- Cause she don't know, you know.
But I lived my whole life there until  I was thirteen, so.
I know- What I know is what I know.
Yes, um,   like,  when we moved, we g- we gave my grandmother all the photo albums and everything, you know.
And like,  they're gone.
What we look for?
You know, like,  okay.
My grandma's like- I said, well- she said, well I put it out.
I was like,  it's not gonna be there if you left it there.
The water probably took it to somebody else house.
But um, that's the only thing that makes it bad that we-  that, you know- that  we couldn't-  we lost a lot of memories.
You know, just point blank.
But- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
My mother, her whole life was in Princeville.
My mama whole- since she was- let's see, twenty?
Her late twenties.
Her whole life was- RD-NAME-2.
Her whole life was in Princeville.
RD-NAME-2.
Her name is RD-NAME-2 so.
She works at the Boys and Girls Club  in um- at Phillip's School.
Phillip Montest- No, Phillip's Magnet School.
She works there and everything but um.
She's um, a-  s-  staff something?
Mm.
What is it called?
I can't think of it, but she work like,  just today she drove to- they- they're in Greensboro at the Greensboro Coliseum for the ACC games.
Cause um, with the Boys and Girls Club,  certain  people were-  certain organizations sponsors  for the, you know, that's the kids that after school they need somewhere to go.
You know, either the-  It used to be for like, for um,  low income families, whatever, but now it's for anybody that either they um,  child is  in need of help  or just need a place to go to interact with kids.
You know, they're there for 'em.
So she drove today to Greensboro.
And um, I said I'm not going, but I called her not to long ago, and she was like, they're having a good time.
Because most kids  there,  they're not used to that.
You know, they don't get to go out and go places like that, you know?
Just to enjoy theyself and um,  the kids didn't have to pay anything.
Organization like um-  Can't think of another one off the top of my head.
They ha- actually sponsored- ga- donated money for them to go.
But the only people that had to pay was the adults and the staff, faculty, but- that was normal, but it's- I don't know.
Um, Princeville Montessori School has a Boys and Girls Club too.
I wouldn't doubt that they didn't go.
I'm'a ask my mama that.
I wouldn't doubt that they didn't go.
But most times, like, my mama um-   If Phillip's Montes- Um, Boys and Girls go somewhere,  Princeville Montessori goes somewhere.
Um,  cause they went to Disney on Ice in Raleigh, and um, she was like, the um- My little cousin is in  the Boys and Girls Club in Princeville Montessori School, and she was like, she's- hey RD-NAME-2, she saw her, you know, and um, so most of the time, the Princeville- Princeville Montessori Boys and Girls Club  do go to things.
So if they go,  they go.
So, it's all into a big group.
It's all- Princeville- we in R- we in Raleigh about every day, so.
We good.
Um, She um, for instance like-  She's like- she tutors.
She tutors the kids.
Um- Um- Uh-uh.
She just tutor there.
Um, like,  if they have um- Um, any subject.
Whatever they have- and they have specific ones in the um- in the club that  only does Math, only does Language Arts and English and whatever like that.
But um, like um,  she- she does the games,  um,  they have the quiet times  when they have to stay on the computer and do the um-  She told me this lesson that they got on the internet,  where the computer that they have to  do  thirty to forty five minutes and I can't think of it off the top my hand, but they have to do it, and uh- They have to reach certain requirements.
They have to have a certain number of students to go there to keep the- the grants funded for the Boys and Girls Club.
And um,  you- you have to- like, if they have problems,  you should be there for them to talk to them, you know?
And like, she see a lot of  children that don't have um- that they lash out for- in need.
To get love.
And like I told his lady, just sitting in, I was like um-  Because she work with children like, abused children and everything and she was saying how  you um-  I said my mother couldn't understand why kids always just come up wanting to get hugs hugs hugs.
And like after awhile she started seeing like, s- either the parents or just something,  how they talk, she would realize that they just lashing out to get some love because they don't get it at home.
So you- and she's like, you have to be dedicated.
And she was like, some children, you can just get mad at- she said - she s- she would say you- you can get mad at them for what they do, but you have to think, you don't know what's going through their mind.
So my mother, she's very- she- she-  she loves-  she love kids to a certain extent.
You know, if they start acting up, but she was like, a child's a child.
That's my mom- that's my mom favorite word.
A child is a child.
They gonna act the way cause they're a child, you know?
And um, she actually some- um- time, she works with this lady in Tarboro  help keep the kids and everything.
Like a little daycare center and um,  she's very active and everything in um,  church-wise anyway.
We go to  Saint Luke Church of Christ Disciples of Christ Princeville.
Course knowing you didn't get to see it but um,  we have- we have a nice built church now.
Like,  people from um, Tennessee- Tennessee,  Texas, and one more place-  Pennsyl-  Penn State came to us- um, church during the flood.
Help um, go around Princeville,    um, help clean up and everything.
And they gave us a nice little concert thing, um,   as in their- their um,  choir from school?
Um, and it was very nice.
They- they did a good job.
They helped- I- I didn't think about that.
They stayed for a whole week too.
Like they- they would just do anything if you- if like, certain-  ten of them'll go to um, this part of Princeville.
Ten of 'em go to that part.
And um,  they- they wasn't- they wont like scornful like, oh I don't want to do that, you know?
They was there to help.
And I couldn't- I was like, Penn State?
Like,  Pennsylvania?
That's far up for them to- for it to just travel that quick.
Because it was such a disaster that everybody- it didn't- it didn't matter where- they was willing to help.
It didn't matter where, they was willing to help.
And um, they stayed there for a whole week.
They put on a nice little concert.
It was  great, and  it was good to interact with everybody, not just be just one- everybody.
And um,   they left and  guess some people came to help, but  they still got on mind Penn State, students from there.
All freshman.
All of 'em.
The amount of- I think I was having .
Yes, so it was good.
It was good.
Uh-  Um-  Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Like, um,  some graduates from my high school still stay there, um, let's see.
Course half of my family- my family is there  on my mother's father's side.
All my mother's father's side people is- is in Princeville.