Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Okay, um, they told me about  um, how they would have to work in the fields,  and my mom also told me  once that  they had to-  They w- There was a  um,  some people that was co- were coming down from the city, and pick up young kids to go to New York, places-  They would uh, designate a place for them to work,  and they would send them off and bring 'em home a certain time but she didn't wanna leave  us cause she had a  lot of kids, and she didn't wanna separate herself.
So a lot of people like  will um, tell them about um-  A lot of the young girls and stuff, they were picked- They raised  you know, the- the white kids and stuff.
So they were housekeepers and babysitters.
And um,    that's all I really- That's all she-  I remember.
And it was also, the main thing was  what was  um,  kind of always stuck in my mind, they always talked about having kids at home.
They had midwives.
They never been to a hospital.
They had midwives that come in to deliver the baby and  all that stuff, so.
The-  the midwives come from the  community.
But see my mom was a-  was a tight person.
My mom and my grandmama  was real negative people.
Very negative people, you know?
So it- Yes .
Yeah.
That one-  That's one thing I  hate.
So they was real negative so,  they didn't never really have anything to say.
It-  it would always be,  like, you young kids are  blessed cause we had this so and so and so, but it wasn't nothing too- nothing positive about it.
We always heard a negative-  Exactly- No.
No.
Negative.
It was  always negative.
Always negative.
But Princeville,  I like the closeness of Princeville because  each family there-  Everybody knew everybody.
So we could  go to the store, leave the door open.
We couldn't- We didn't have to worry about  people stealing as much, you know, because everybody pretty much knew everybody.
Um,  respected  each other's space.
Um,  could say something to- to  another person child, and now you can't do that.
You know, they kind of disciplined them if the parent wasn't home, so.