I moved to Tarboro in nineteen- Hm.
I been over here fifteen years, so  it was in- Nineteen ninety I moved over here.
Mm-hm.
No, I didn't lose anything.
My family-  Everybody in my family lost  everything they had, but me.
I was over here in Tarboro, and I had a brother in Rocky Mount but he also lost everything.
Mm-hm.
In Rocky Mount.
He was flooded.
Um, but  my main concern was my mom was handicapped.
She had a stroke back in  eighty five, and I didn't want her to have to go to the shelter.
And-  and I knew she couldn't get up and down off the floor and off the carts and stuff they had for the older people.
So that was my main concern about the flood and everybody when I found everybody was safe.
You know, I was happy and  so i-  I tried  as much as possible to accommodate everybody that was in the flood.
Knew I couldn't but my heart wanted to be there, so.
I had forty one people for about nine months.
So- L-  It was a- It was a big strain for me,  but I asked God for one thing, that they keep  my joy.
I forgot through the myst- I didn't care about 'em tearing up anything because I knew- I always been a  um-  I say-  I like stuff neat and in order, so  I had to  kind of humble myself, and it wasn't all about me.
So I said, you know, they- they're not here because  they wanna be here.
They don't have any other choice, so  I was  thankful that I was able to help 'em.
Mm-hm.
Okay, the average day was like,    um-  When the first- the flood first came,  it was depressing.
Everybody was sad and sorrow,  so  my job was to make- When we got a opportunity to do-  to go out,  um,    I-  I went to Walmart and I bought a lot of stuff for everybody.
I bought pajamas for everybody, so they wouldn't have to get up.
Bought  um, lot of  female clothing.
I bought a lot of male clothing and stuff so  um,  it was like  depressing.
So  and then Rev-  RD-NAME-2's father was there, so he would pray with us, and we'll s- The group was there, so we would get together and sing.
We'll play games and stuff, and the older people kind of s-  sat back you know.
But  the average day was like-  We had a sister.
My sister cooked for everybody.
So she was designated to cook breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
So um- The f-  Okay, four o'clock in the morning, those that  went back to work  had to get up at four in the morning.
Most of the older kids-  The old- the- the uh, adults was up the front, and the kid was in the back.
So the adults had to get up- They have to be to work at eight o'clock, they had to get up at four to go on and um, get their breakfast and-  and get their clothing and stuff and get out of the way  for the crew for six o'clock.
They had to go- There was another crew that got up at six that had to be at work at eight.
So um,  then they got up at six and got prepared, and they was out  by seven thirty.
So then the kids in the back- I had another bathroom- They would kind of take a shower,  then slip on the pajamas  or the house coat and then go-  I had a big walk in closet that we chose that closet to dress in.
So - So- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So after you take a shower, you come out of the bathroom,  and you go in the closet and dress and let somebody else go in, that's how it was.
And my sister would get up and- and cook and-  and um,  cook and most time, we prepared clothes at night.
We had- I had  like,  three-  three um,  ironing boards and three irons and stuff and- It was a lot.
Uh-huh.
Everybody had to come home.
We had food ready.
Um,  then they had- they would race-  At night, it wasn't really a- a shift.
Whoever got to the bathroom,  took a shower, put your pajamas on, and  we took a nap.
And we had about um-  Back in the back we had about fourteen  twin mattresses that some of 'em slept on, and I slept on the floor for nine months, so I had given my bed up to Reverend-  to RD-NAME-2's dad and mom and  his sister  slept in-  We w-  We was everywhere.
We was  everywhere.
But  it was-  it was a joyful time to me because  everybody got along, and they respected-  You know, my job was to-  s- to make sure everybody was comfortable.
So the- most of the strain was on me.
You know, and I tried not-  It's a hard job not to  make a difference in  one of the kids and  you know, you stay in your place, and you stay in your place, and  well Aunt RD-NAME-1 so and so-  I don't wanna hear it.
I didn't entertain all the garbage or all the-  Well they didn't look at me.
They didn't speak.
It doesn't matter.
Everybody's here,   and  we gonna get along, so it was fun.
It was fun.
Mm-hm.
It was a bonding time.
We had um-  We had the kids in the back because we wanted to watch TV, so  I had to eliminate  um-  I had to buy  um,  another refrigerator, so the kids wouldn't have to come-  At ten o'clock the main door be shut.
So the kids won't go up the front and mess- Cause the- the  older kids-  the-  the adults had to go to work.
So I had a schedule that- At ten o'clock, anything up the front that you want, you better go on and get it cause we gonna shut this door,  and we're not gonna open it anymore.
So.
Mkay.
Mm-hm.
Well you're welcome.
This has been a pleasure.