And um,  RD-NAME-3 they hardly exist anymore anyway.
The one's that's living.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Cousins.
A lot of my cousins.
Yeah lots of cousins, so.
My- my mother- All of Princeville point blank is my mother's side, so.
No, my father- my mother's  daddy's side, but my mother's side,  her- her family is from um,  Baltimore, Maryland so I know much about- I don't know that much about them.
Nothing about them.
Uh-huh.
I'd be counting for days, Lord knows I would.
It's a lot of 'em.
It's- and majority of 'em stay there.
And um, only probably about three or four to actually move away.
But they moved to Rocky Mount so it's not that far, you know.
It's not that far, but um,  they was point blank born and raised in Princeville point blank.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Um, let's see.
Um,  I'm having a mind blank.
Yes, they graduate- wait- let me see.
Some of 'em-  like, some of my friends um-   I got a girl that, um,  she- she goes to- one of 'em go to A and T.
One of 'em goes to um,  Appalachian State.
One of 'em goes- a lot of 'em- some of 'em  go- I got two  that go to ECU.
Let's see, where they was gonna go.
She went to-   she went to Elizabeth City.
And o- somebody there went to  App- Achalacha.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
The- my um, graduate class, majority of us went.
If they didn't go to college they went to Edg- they went to Edgecombe Community College right down here.
They just didn't- they didn't do nothing.
That's the advantage on my class.
I can thank the Lord that  they made it in right mind that we went- we weren't just like,  well I graduated from high school.
That's all I'm gonna do.
So it's like that.
They went- they going to school, so.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
And um,  Miss RD-NAME-2, her daughter?
She- she stays in Princeville now.
Her daughter goes to North Carolina State, so she's doing- she- she's a j-  RD-NAME-5 is a  junior there.
I think she's a junior.
She a junior.
She's a junior.
Sur- Yeah she's a junior.
She a junior at State.
She a junior at State, so.
And she's or- she's from Princeville.
Her mother still staying,  and they have a beautiful home.
Beautiful.
Oh my Lord.
It is beautiful.
And she di- decorated everything in here so you can probably imagine how her house look.
Her house is nice.
Nice.
Um, we had- our church um, I think it- like a month ago- had um-  we had a Night Against Crime.
The-  Night Against Crime.
That's when all the kids in the neighborhood um, come to our church and um,  we have different um,  programs like um-  Think we have some self defense ones, um,  talking about like,  just child prevention,  child abuse,  different things like, don't talk to strangers if you see one.
Um,  just different things, and we had um-  Oh my Lord, we had a lot of nice stuff.
We had a little carnival one time.
Mm-hm.
It's- it was like- it was sponsored by the um, fire department.
All the neighborhood kids come out, um- Uh-huh.
Oh.
Okay.
Um,    let's see.
We h- what else?
Psychology.
Psychology.
My first year.
Yeah.
It's- Yeah.
But I'm looking into it.
I'm like, it's gonna be tough, but that's what I wanna do.
I'm- Um,  just my basic- my- my math,  um,  my health class, English.
I only got one more English to take, so I'm glad of that.
Um-  No, I don't like math either, but you gotta take 'em, so.
And I only got one more math to take, that's one twenty, but that's all.
I'm stopping there.
I'm'a stop there.
I'm not going .
And um,    uh, let's see.
Um,  some General Ed.
classes, but um,  next semester,  it'll be on.
I'm only taking one psych class, and that's a mini orientation class.
It's new.
They try to bring you into what you gonna look for- look  forward into getting into when you  get into your major class in psych, and just um, it's good.
But I see right now, it's-  it's- it's no joke.
It is no joke.
Like,  I was like, God be with me, be with me.
But um- Ah.
It's hectic because I do work study too.
So it's like,  go to classes, go to work-  Like even between my classes I have- I work.
I'm really not into like, working at night time.
I just-  I think because  so much  Gen.
Ed.
classes where I was like,  I just need my d-  my night time to myself.
So I go to class and then-  then I go to work um-   It's just tough.
Like, even when some weekends come I still feel like I'm doing work, like- like, wait, I got time to myself, but then I'm home this week,  took midterms.
My last midterm was  Thursday, and I was like, God I'm ready- I'm ready to get home.
I'm glad Thursday was my last midterm.
So when I came yesterday, I sat home.
I was- Oh I was in heaven, like,  thank you.
I'm glad not to be in the dorm life, so I'm glad just to be home.
Nothing.
I'm doing nothing.
White people be like, well I wanna go  to the beach, and I'm  like, you know, what?
The beach ain't too far for me, but   I don't think I'm gonna make it.
I just- I just want time to sit and just- just chill.
Like I'm just gonna chill.
Just out there .
Have nothing planned.
Because I got the house to myself because my mother  now they gone to Greensboro.
I'm like,  hey I just left from Greensboro.
Y'all goin there, you know, but she was like, you don't wanna go the ACC?
I was like, no.
I wanna stay home.
So when I leave from here, I'm going home and just look at television, and call it a day.
I'm leaving school work to the side cause I don't have nothing due, so  when I left  Friday, I left school for a whole week.
So I'm just- Then when I come back, I'm like, okay, this, and I gotta get back on the ball and ready for- be ready for finals, so.
After that,  I'm good to go.
Now looking forward to seeing the summer.
May the fourth, that's what I'm looking forward to.
That's our last day for classes.
So.
Then it's the summertime.
Then I'm- I'm going- I'm-  I don't know if I wanna do full time or part time at the community colleges to do um,   take like one or two of my psych classes in summer  other General Ed.
classes.
I don't know if I wanna- I think- I'm leaning towards doing it because I get ahead.
Then  being further behind, I get ahead on some of my classes and um,  I'm definitely gonna work.
Save up for money, just  if anything happened,  like if I don't get a certain scholarship grant that I want, I have something to fall back on.
Because you have to do it because- How much it cost at State?
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Well,  in RD-SCHOOL-2, it's sixteen thousand, so it's like you know?
Yeah.
And it's a private school, so that's a big difference between- it was public and private, you know, but some are-  Uh-huh.
RD-SCHOOL-2.
Uh-huh.
We have- Um,  a lady from um-  ho- well, she- she stayed in Princeville, too.
And um, she  got her- um, RD-NAME-4.
She works in uh, RD-WORK-5 in uh,  Rocky Mount, and um- RD-WORK-5.
It's a health um-  it's a health administrating building.
Like,  um,  they go to different schools,  um, talk about um, different health  resources.
You know, different programs to s-  help-  like if you're a diabetic- so and so's a-  cancer or anything,  support system.
It's very nice, and um,  she got her Masters I think at Indiana University?
And um, she was like,  RD-NAME-2 so and so  RD-SCHOOL-2 this, RD-SCHOOL-2 that, RD-SCHOOL-2 and I was like okay.
I was like, let me try it out.
I went, and it's- it's cool.
I don't know, I- I guess- I don't know.
It's- it's- You know, honestly, with that school,  um-