And then we left from there, but then we left to- went to FEMA park.
Out there where all the trailers and things at?
And we stayed out there for a year-  Okay, let me see.
A year  and um, half.
That's the long we ever- th- that's the long that we stayed out there at FEMA park.
A year and a half.
It sure is.
Mm-hm.
And then I had a mama too in a wheelchair too.
But she still here though.
She still living.
All of 'em- all of 'em-  My grandmama she dead, my granddaddy gone, my mama she still here.
She still living.
I know but they- they did it.
I don't know how they did it.
Cause they- they took my two- they took my two kids first, put them in the helicopter.
Then they put  me- took me and then it took my husband.
Then- then I said what about my mama?
And uh- they said they gonna get her.
And so they got her and they took her to the em- uh, hospital and check her out and see, you know,  if she- what kind of condition she was in.
And so they uh, treated her  and then they brought her back up there to uh,  Tarboro High School where we was at.
Before we left.
Uh-huh.
Basket.
They would drop the basket, and then this man was out there  Just- well, we was in the house right.
And the m- the um-  the guard- the- the guy- the guard- the- the- uh-  the- the airplane man  came down and got us, you know, held us real tight you know, so we wont, know, uh   that the wings on the airplane flying in the air.
And so he was holding us  and put us in the basket and lift up like that.
And that was scary.
It sure was.
I don't wanna go through that no more.
You sit down until they lift you up- air lift you up, and then another man be inside of the airplane  and pull you on in.
Yeah my baby was.
He was screaming and hollering.
But my little girl wont though.
See they was in the basket together cause I was scared for them to- you know, him to go up there by hisself cause he was yelling and hollering, he might jump out.
So they put her and him together  and I was praying to the Lord that he didn't try to jump out of there cause I was so scared.
Me and my husband.
Mm-mm.
She wont afraid.
She took it easy.
Mm-hm.
She was brave.
I reckon she did that to comfort her brother, you know.
She had his arm around him  s- comfort him.
Yes.
My bro- my uh, not my brother my-  my son,  when he see the Army folk go by,  Hey Army people,  y'all saved my life.
I said, that is so sweet cause they sure did.
He'll never forget it.
He took a picture with the Army  peoples, you know.
Two- uh, two guys,  him, he and my daughter,  they took a picture with 'em.
If I had thought about it I should have brought it along with me, let y'all see.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, the camera man.
Yeah.
Well they got new homes coming up,  and they got they, uh, apartments is up  and um,  it's just been a little change in there-  changing  in here.
It sure has- schools and stuff.
It's- um-  They rebuilt the school and s- they done good.
Course it take time, you know, but they- they coming on through with it.
I would say it was a small town.
It's not big, you know.
It ain't never been a big town, no way.
But you know, it's growing.
People ask me where I'm from.
I say, Princeville.
you are?
Well uh, where that at?
I say-  Mm-hm.
Where that at?
You know, people that, you know, ain't never been- you know, heard nothing about Princeville.
Sometime, they don't act like they hear nothing- but know nothing about Tarboro  when you say you from Tarboro.
They'll talk about, where's Tarboro at?
Uh, peoples, like, Uh-huh.
People- people like, you know, you be talking to people, you know, like on the phone.
They're from Tennessee and California, places like that.
They- they don't know nothing about  the town  around here.
But I love it though.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah they-  The Boys and Girls Club and stuff like that there.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
They take 'em on trips and like places like Raleigh different places and stuff like that.
Well some of 'em is- uh-  some of 'em are big and some of 'em little.
You know the- the- the- usual the van they take the big children like they do little children.
They do 'em all alike you know.
Yeah.
Boys and Girls school.
They're so nice.
Yeah I send 'em to do something with other peoples.
Mm-hm.
And my daughter she love it done met people that- you know, new friends and stuff.
Mm-hm.
And she f- love  Princeville Montessori School.
She is- sure do.
She love to go over that school.
She love school anyway.
She sure do.
Mm, I do.
I sure am glad.
She's a sweet child.
Both 'em are so sweet.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
That's right.
You're right about that.
I like to do?
Well I like to do helping out people.
That's what hobby I like to do.
Help peoples out when they need help.
That's what I like to do.
Oh no.
No, there ain't any- I ain't into that- without- you know- no.
I guess a house wife.
That's all I am right now.
I might go back to work if they ain't- you know-  if my husband  stop going out of town, which I doubt that.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
You're right.
I know.
Mm-hm.
You right.
You right.
It is important.
Cause that's a job.
Well Pine Top  and Halifax, well it's a big town.
When I left Halifax and then moved to Pine Top,  Pine Top a small town.
Well Pine Top, well I- I went to school in Pine Top.
If- it- it- I likeded that too but um,  I think I like Princeville the best.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I- I think I like Princeville the best.
Mm-hm.
I don't want to go back to neither one of them.
I sure don't wanna go back.