Yeah, that's alright.
Well no, when I-  when I got sixteen or seventeen I left  and got me a little job up in Virginia Beach.
I was there til my daddy health failed, around about- I'd say about  seven years.
Then I came back home to take care of him.
Cause he had, you know- he was married again had three small kids and his wife,  she was sick too, so I had to come help them out.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
What I was  doing?
Well working into the office- clean the office up like you know different office like that.
So I stayed.
I liked the job very much.
It was nice.
I didn't wanna leave, but know, had to come back and help my dad out.
Cause Dad said- Since I left from Virginia?
I worked in uh, Kl- RD-WORK-2 factory mill- factory- RD-WORK-2 mill.
I know you heard about that.
Out Rocky Mount highway, the- going toward Rocky Mount?
RD-WORK-2.
Stayed there about ten years.
And then I was-  went  to work in RD-WORK-4 tobacco factory, was there about  fifteen years.
Just kept the, know,  up and  find answer like that, help peoples out- when they need help.
Mm-hm.
And so that's most that I worked in Tarboro.
And I worked down over- then I stopped then after the factory work I got me a- started going to school that my nursing aids start taking care of the older peoples.
And I done to myself- my health  that I could stop.
So I quit working around about when-  I quit about around about seven years I had quit working.
Yeah, I help out Priscilla, I'm'a help out Princeville.
Yes, help her out cause she's a very nice sweet person.
I like her very much.
Yes.
Sure is, I tell you, he is nice.
And so when I be coming to old Princeville, I don't mind doing anything  that they ask me.
If I'm able to do it, I will do it.
That's right, my home and cause I love Princeville.
I remember the first flood came here though, it wont that bad like it was  that one what we had in ninety nine.
We had a little small flood long time ago.
I remember I was a little small thing then.
And my father had get out in a Volvo- uh oh.
We went across the end of-  where that,  you know, get from Princeville to River Bridge and go to East Tarboro near my auntie.
You know, the water but it coming for in Princeville long then, but after  Floyd came here.
Oh my God, it was messed up.
When Floyd came?
Oh yeah, uh-huh.
I was around about mm, I'd say about  about six or seven years old.
Yeah it was scary.
And what- and well fun too, cause I love to see the people riding they boat, you know.
Pretend their boat was good.
Mm.
Mm, hey.
Hi.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, but I don't know.
Every week.
That's right.
Who is you?
RD-NAME-5.
I heard something RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-2 stay in East Tarboro.
You know-  RD-NAME-4, yeah.
Oh.
Oh,  oh I see.
Oh you second them to   RD-NAME-2 all them.
Yeah, I know you now.
I thought   but I don't know them by her face.
Yeah the first flood came here.
I was about- I was about s-  six or seven years old.
You remember that?
When the first flood came here?
Well see it didn't flood East Tarboro.
It flooded just Princeville and we had to get a- you know a little  paddle boat- the paddle boat and paddle out of here.
It was fun to me cause I love to play in that water then it was too high.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Oh, Floyd came- hit .
That's right.
Yes yes yes.
Now that's was something I didn't- I couldn't understand.
It's came so quick.
Cause the sun was shining like it was down at church, playing in the water afternoon it w- We were out there.
I was messing the water myself.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
What - RD-NAME-3?
Uh-huh.
Yeah cause at that time, I can't- at night.
See, didn't nobody tel-  the telephone ring about  two thirty.
Cause my sister had moved left Lone Pine and came to stay at me cause her wards was in trouble, low.
It flood her house out.
I said come on my house alright.
I said I got a  come over here with me.
And at night we got into bed at two thirty A.M.
that morning.
I'm telling you.
Telephone was ringing and somebody hollering and I went to the telephone.
RD-NAME-1 get out of the house, the water's coming, water's coming.
I ran to the front door,  open that door and the water   Already- and I couldn't get nothing.
I had my gown on and a pair of flecks.
I got my sister and her two children out of there.
And then telephone ring again, and know, RD-NAME-7, her  sister and her niece back there around the corner from me.
RD-NAME-1 pick me up.
Ain't got nowhere to get.
My water's coming.
I said, wait a minute.
I can't get out myself.
If I can, I'll pick you up.
So I did but I can- that night I saved two life that night, two home.
I- I- I carried one to Tarboro High School,  and when I got back,  I followed by RD-NAME-3 with her two kids in front of me,  and I didn't see her.
I said, oh Lord.
That girl's still in the house over there.
I told my sister RD-NAME-2,  I said, come on.
Let's try it again.
Went back over there again, and that when we knock on-  call her three time,  and the water is brushing my car.
The car full of water.
I'm just got it, just all I could do.
And then she pop a light on.
I said, girl, you better come on cause the water's coming.
And time her children got in that car, girl, got to the- we got to river bridge, I-  the water right here in the car on me, and I just  went like this and Lord I- I said, Lord, Jesus,  take care of us and get to Tarboro High School.
And when I got there, and saw everybody was there and the girl was talking about, the Lord clearing the water.
A man will come from Leggetts and his car- just though he was in the road.
He drove and it-  that  bridges and the car tumbled over top and he died.
That scared me into- I sat and I started boo hoo and crying.
I been driving safe all of my life, said Lord Jesus took of us.
Yes sir.
Yes, Lord.
Nobody but the Lord.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Mm.
Yes Lord.
It was something child, yes sir.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Oh yes Lord, yes.
Yes.
Okay then.
Oh yeah.
Mm.
Lordy, Lordy.
E- over there in Rocky Mount?
Mm-hm.
Got a nice trailer over there, nice trailer.
They give a nice home.
Had so many- It was nice.
The people were warm.
Mm-hm.
I come- I come to that trailer- I hate to see my trailer go back.
Take it back.
It was so nice and coming back- nice and warm in the winter time and nice and cool in the summer.
It's real nice.
And I just- I just went- I said, Lord Jesus.
You made it wait for us.
He made it wait for us.
No one was killed.
Two- I think it was- Was it six?
S- some folk got- There's six- I think it was five or six got killed at Pine Top .
I don't think- don't think nobody in Tarboro got killed I don't think.
I ain't heard nothing about it.
One.
I didn't hear nothing about Princeville.
Mm.
Yeah because they had o- my husband for dead.
But they found his shoe- his shoe because he left his shoe.
We was setting out on the porch out- out- I saw it outside, and um,  and uh,  they found his shoe and they said that he was dead.
And matter fact, they say all us were dead.
And my brother, he was walking around like he was ooh-   going foozy and when he saw us at Tarboro High, he grabbed us and starting hugging, cause I thought y'all were dead.
Yes it was.
Oh my God, it was awful thing at the time, I'm telling you it was- My sister dead and gone now.
But she stuck by- we stuck together though.
Said you going RD-NAME-1?
I'm going to.
I said, get in the car, let's go.
Save somebody, it's gonna need to do something like that.
Mm.
The whole town of Princeville destroyed badly.
That water- the man came to look at my home.
I was afraid to go in my own house.
the FEMA man come and inspect the house.
Like somebody had just-  just  took a-  a axe and tore the front all to pieces.
Frigerator laying in the middle of the floor.
Mm.
Coffee table broke half in it too.
Table upside down, bed upside down.
Can't believe your own eyes.
And I couldn't go no- I said, Lord have mercy.
Jesus.
Went back in the- Oh that water.
I had six inch inside.
The old cupboard .
And I  outside around about  it was covering the window outside.
Cause you tell the water start- the white part was showing all the white.
On- on the- yeah.
It was high.
I'm telling you, very very high.
Oh yes that mildew.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
You w- No, he thr- throw everything away.
Oh, everything at my house.
It was everything I had.
But I did- I tell you what I did have.
I had a whole great big-  keep a f- freezer j- full of food.
I just put back for the summer- for the winter.
And all that food in the frigerator.
I told the man.
Man said, it ain't no good.
He took the whole thing and throw it in the trash pile.
I didn't say nothing.
Now I'm gonna  it to a another town.
I don't want that food, no way.
My- But I still wonder why  put them in my basket and watch 'em start on hot water.
first time I did say,  And my clothes  they were no good.
All of them.
They're all .
Whew.
Mm-hm.
Yes Lord.
It's- Well uh-  it's just like the beginning just like you started walking- beginning walk again.
Something like that.
It's hard.
Yeah.
It just- Well I don't know.
You think about the what I had.
I gotta start all over again, get that back.
Yes.
And I'll never get back what I had.
Mm-mm.
But they were good to us.
Real nice.
They're very nice to us.
Well I- well I sure had a- I had a good blessing.
Because the lady from, um,  Springfield, Maryland came roll around in Princeville, looking at the home and land  and said that  her name had- her-  my name of my home  had got on the church-  and a church family and the house was numbered.
And they had thought about RD-ADDRESS-6  in Princeville.
And they try to find me and I was living Rocky Mount in the FEMA camp.
So I think RD-NAME-2  over here and then he gave her  my number girlfriend East Tarboro and she told me about it.
And I called her back.
Said she wanted to meet me, and I met her that next day.
And they came and looked at my house and told me, don't worry about a thing.
They gonna help me.
All they can.
Sure did, and so they came in some two-  two or three come down here.
They came down three time a week  and fixed my house up.
That's was a blessing right there.
Yes Lord, yes.
I just prayed to the Lord so I- then I-  And then after I got my house fixed up, they brought me a whole truck  uh,  full of clothes,  bed linens,  dishes and plates and  pots and  pans and  just a whole thing.
A truck full of clothes and stuff.
Yes Lord, yes.
And thank God for- Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yeah, Red Cross done very nice.
They sure  a lot of people around here.
Mm, mm, mm.
Yes.
Yes, Lord yes.
It was so .
Mm.
But- I thank and praise God right now.
I can't stop praising enough.
I have a thousand tongue in my mouth today.
I'll still be praising.
Well I can't praise Him enough, child, been so good to us.
Just look back over your s-  just look back  in ninety nine, where you came from.
You got something to thank God for.
I'm telling you, yes.
Mm-hm.
I- I don't-  I- that's hard to say.
I don't think- they should have love  in their hearts,  but I don't think some people ain't got no heart in them.
I believe that.
Cause there's not enough love in Princeville.
Still not enough love here.
After that uh, accident, God yeah- that accident happen in Tarboro.
Well it's some good peoples in Princeville.
I love all of 'em.
Got to love all your people, enemie- enemies and your friend.
Mm-mm.
Well I think everybody .
Mm-mm.
Oh yes.
Yes .
Well I think everybody came back in Southern Terrace.
All my neighbor I know.
Don't know about Princeville.
A lot of folks didn't come back in Princeville.
Mm-mm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, Princeville .
That's part of Princeville.
Took that over about  five, six years ago.
And go- it used to go as for the country store- Roger's store but now they gone down.
Other side of Southern Terrace now.
Princeville.
I think they going to the truck stop  out here  Princeville.
Mm-hm.
You love some kind of- love Princeville  come home.
Mm.
Yeah, yeah around and around.
It's good.
Yeah.
Yeah cause- I came- I came back home.
I stayed gone from Prince- I think I stayed gone from Princeville about seven years.
But I- I had to decide that's home.
I'm going back home.
And I've been ever since.
I love me- I love hometown.
Mm-hm.
It's a nice community.
Nice community.
Nice peoples here.
Some nice people.
Mm-hm.
I love all of 'em.
I say I don't- I don't see no harm but I don't  no one.
Cause say love your enemies same way your friends, so love everybody.
And I do love everybody.
And if you can't along with us it'd be the best to speak to the ?
get enough.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Exactly.
Yes.
Yes.
Exactly.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yeah a lot of people love Tarboro, love Princeville.
I think .
It's gonna be a little town now on the map.
Yeah, it's on the map.
I think- and more people coming back to Princeville now.
Cause they're building more homes over there.
More people coming back to live over here.
I said, it's nice.
I have seen more strange people in Princeville I seen in a long long time.
After the flood and everything.
Cause- They had built some nice homes for people to live in.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I think so.
I believe so.
Mm-hm.
I stayed in Princeville  til-  and then I stayed over East Tarboro about-  I moved from Princeville, got a house with where my dad was living at, a little rotten, you know a little board house.
It about to fall down.
And my dad got sick, you know, and being out and he moved.
And I moved to East Tarboro with him.
And now East Tarboro.
Then after he was in the hospital- that where he died in the hospital.
Then I stayed out East Tarboro around about-  about ten years.
Then I came back to Princeville again    to one of these projects over here.
Then after a while, I  up my sister  and her husband  left me over here and built me a home over here in Southern Terrace.
I said, that's my blessing.
And I been here ever since.
I ain't gonna leave there.
Now they came from there.
Well I love- Now I tell you I love Southern Terrace.
It's nice.
And they keep very quiet.
Ain't nobody standing in front of your door cursing and crowd of people standing in front of your door nights.
Mm-hm.
I just love it here.
I ain't gonna leave there from there.
They're carry me from there and  then.
I'm telling you.
Mm-mm.
Mm-hm.
I had one child.
I ain't never had- one was born dead.
I miscarried.
Yes.
But I raised- my sister had-  one had twelve and  one had seven.
And I helped raised them up, so I call me mom.
No I sure didn't.
But I helped raise a lot of my life though all my niece and nephew.
.
Yeah it's a blessing to have some kids, I'm'a tell you.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
What's your mom- your mom name ?
It ain't  Martin.
RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-5 oh.
RD-NAME-4- Uh-huh.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes, Lord.
Yes, yes, yes.
Mm.
Mm.
I think I'm a good- I'm a good cooker.
I- I began to cook  when my mother passed.
I was so young though, eight years old when mother died.
And so it was- it was four under me and it was five older than I was.
And the older one had to go out and work.
And I had to stay home with the small one like that and do a little cooking around there.
I done some cooking around, though, I'm telling you.
We mess up but we add up though.
I'll tell you what.
I know, know, know, know, know.
Yeah I had a sister.
She passed away  last year.
She was in the flood with me.
I love her.
Then she passed away last April.
And her children still live in Princeville.
And I- I help them out.
I take care of them just about- you know, two m- two men but  that act like children.
Yeah I had to go in there and do it for 'em.
So I said-  I got one sister living ?.
And got one sister New York.
Got two in New York.
One brother in Virginia.
Well I got- no, I got about eight nine,  five of us family now living now out of twelve.
Yeah, I travel sometime.
I drove to New York year before last but I ain't do it no more.
Oo, I like New York but hate driving up there.
Wow.
Bumpety bump.
You got to drive New York.
you got to drive.
They scare you to death.
I look back and the minute kept my bumper so close when they blowing the horn, get you all nervous.
I said, Lord,  if I drive again it-  This my first time and my last time.
So now if I go up now, my nephew can get me- came up there.
Ain't gonna drive over there no more.
No sir.
It's too much.
I sure don't.
Mm-mm.
I love it-  I love ride a train now.
I ride a train, but I don't like to ride the bus too much.
So much  trouble.
I was sitting, sitting, sitting.
I'm telling you the truth.
What- what time is it now?
I gotta leave here around about ten minutes to eleven.
I got a doctor appointment at eleven thirty.
I got to get out there  to the clinic.
Hm?
Yeah just an appointment to see the doctor.
I don't want to go but I'm going- got to go.
Yeah, got to take care, know, see if everything alright.
That's all.
Went to the lab last week.
Though every time you go now I got to draw that blood.
They draw- Ye- yes sir.
I told doctor said, y'all got more blood got in my body out of me.
Everything and the blood blood blood.
Why do you have to draw my blood for?
They won't tell me though.
Sure , I don't know why.
That's right.
I am telling you.
Well you w- Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 you're doing fine.
I said, okay, I'll see you in two or three months.
I said, well what do you keep drawing my blood for then?
I said, y'all got more blood in here than I got in my own body.
I'm telling you right now.
I got a little- I got a little young doctor.
He looked like- he looked to me about twenty two years old.
I called, ain't you a little boy?
I said, how old you is?
He said, I'm-  I'm thirty one.
Don't look like it.
Just came out of- just came out of a doctor and everything.
But they just nice little doctors now.
Young doctors, intern, they was real nice.
They try to learn some of that old doctor- they retire and then younger doctor coming up now.
But they know something though.
They real nice.
I like my little doctor.
He right nice.
Time go there,  Hi Miss RD-NAME-1.
I said, fine, how you doing today?
I'm doing fine.
You sure are doing fine.
Yeah, I'm doing good.
That's all.
Well there's change in the community, the houses change.
Some- yeah.
That's right, the houses change a lot.
And the people have changed in town.
Some is real good.
But you know, any- any way you go you're gonna find some bad apples in a bushel of bad app- yes.
Everywhere you go.
But I saw a big change has been in Princeville cause  Got ours town hall here we never had.
You got new home coming up.
You got  everything- It's beautiful.
Yeah, I think everything- now we have more of it.
that people coming in though.
Having- just having that.
It- it- it's nice.
That's what I love about it.
It sure has came from a long long way  when I was a girl.
I'm telling you.
Cause Princeville ain't old.
We were living two -  two bed- No, one bedroom.
Two bedroom  and a kitchen.
N- nine- we had twelve head of children, daddy had nine head,  my mama would make nine, ten, eleven.
Two bedroom and a kitchen.
Th- all the houses you get up in, the little bowl house.
It was rough.
Yes sir.
Four or five think  we had two big- had on big king- two king size bed in each room  for the kids to sleep in.
And then dad and mama had a bedroom, then there be the kitchen, we have a room.
Like be four in this bed or five in this bed, like that, you know?
To the foot and to the bottom to the head.
Well we kept one but one thing my dad was very survivor man he raise a lot of hogs.
He raise a lot of chicken.
So we didn't go hungry.
But we was- we was just lacking, clothes, know.
Long then, it wasn't no foods  welfare giving you money buy no clothes with.
So dad had worked hard to  to pay a little rent for the house and-  and by some odd and ends cause he kill about four or five hog every year.
We ate plenty meat,  cabbage and collards and-  and corn like they know that- that's good but  our clothes was kind of lacking.
But we had some nice neighbor around there, gave us, know,  children clothes.
After my mother passed away, the people were real good to us.
Real nice to us.
So many small  kids though.
And everybody fend for us cause we was- we be was- we be- was lonely  without a mother and we all were little doorstep coming up.
And daddy worked hard.
The way he died, he had busted veins.
I stood by his bed at night in the hospital.
In the Veteran Hospital, let me hold my hand.
He said, take care of my children.
I said, I will.
And that's what I was doing back in Tarboro there.
I just took care of his second-married  children.
It was very sad but I think Princeville coming up real nice.
What I have seen- Mm-hm.
Doing good ain't it?
Yeah, it is.
Princeville change a lot but yeah.
Nice people.
Some nice peoples here.
Real nice folk, just real nice.
And then we got food banks around here give out food.
RD-NAME-4 we get our food banks out every Wednesday, and she try to help the hungry- feed the hungry.
And she a nice- she- she doing really really good for Princeville.
So good.
Just doing real nice cause she's the younger one ever been the mayor of Princeville here.
Yeah she the younger one that ever been here.
Yeah- and she is a very very nice acting girl.
She try to do her very best toward everybody.
Mm-hm.
She a very kind sweet person.
I love her from when I first met her.
But she- when she first run for mayor out here,  in No- against, uh,  what the girl name, RD-NAME-4?
She was nice sweet girl then.
But when she got to mayor she had done a lot.
Improve a lot.
And I can't say enough about Princeville.
I love Princeville.
It's some nice people here  and God gonna make everybody love one another.
God has come in here.
He's coming.
as one.
One all.
So keep praying for Princeville, is be alright.
Yes Lord.
And nothing I can say about     I don't like this person, I ain't gonna say that.
I love everybody.
Yeah.
That's right.
that what God love.
That love.
Love can draw you in.
If you love everybody, if you are a nice person live at  wonderful place.
But some ain't got love.
Some got hate.
There's a lot of hatred in this world now.
Yes it's the only thing that coming, just  make yourself say- speak with God, say, hey, how you doing?
How you feel?
Pat him on the shoulder and keep getting up.
Just bring love to you.
And I love- I love- I love everybody.
I try to make friends with everybody.
where you live cause can't  walk around your head up high in this air.
Think you better than everybody else.
You will never get nothing out of that.
Yes, just pat him on the shoulder, say how you feel today?
I'm glad you're doing alright.
You keep doing good and keep getting up.
That's all you have to do babe.
That's right.
That's right.
Mm-hm Mm-hm.
You miss a lot that don't be love and kind.
I think God really blessed me cause I just love everybody.
I help everybody I can and if somebody ask me on faith if I could do it I'm gonna do it.
With a smile on my face.
I got to leave y'all good girls now.
It's about eleven o'clock ain't it.
Yeah, she'll be in- I was in before she was anyway.
Mm-hm.
I got to go the doctor office now.
So he can tell me when to come back again.
So nice to meet you too.
Okay, where- where your home at?
Raleigh.
Oh yeah,  yeah.
Nice place.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
This your home in North Carolina.
Yeah, I see you're a North Carolina girl.
That's good.
Mm.
Well you good at going to North Carolina, that's good , sure is.
Hey y'all have a good blessed day and a nice day.
And I'll see you, I know you now.
Okay I- Now, see, I say, hey how you doing?
I know that girl now, okay?
I know you now so you all have a good day and a blessed day.
Oh come back in three months, you're doing good.
But don't forget to go to  sometimes, said okay.
I hope so too baby.
Y'all take good care, okay?
And I love your  and God bless your day.
Okay.