Alright and then,    uh, from First Street on back up,  um,  it would be on the right side, found on the right side of- of  Boulevard and, um,  then I got everything on the right side on Mutual Boulevard, and  part of Southern Terrace.
Mm-hm.
Uh- If I- once you turn into  Southern Terrace,  I have the ri- all the right side    of Southern Terrace.
Mkay.
Yeah, I live about in the middle of- middle.
We're about at the end.
Yeah, it's basically a  bout at the- well right before you get to  store, so that  still right before you get to Southern Terrace, so I'm about at the end of Greenwood Boulevard.
Yeah, cause I had a lot of clients too, like you said, um, uh,  growing up with some of 'em, and um, Well some of the ones that had moved from the country up here, yeah.
Um,  and uh, I had went to school with of them from um,  Robinson School, in um,  in Conetoe.
Yeah, the high school they was at, uh, Pattillo, so they would be in Tarboro.
The ones that was, um,    when they, uh,  divide the area up,  for- once they closed Conetoe down,  the ones that was closer up in Tarboro went to  uh, Pattillo.
The ones from um  closer back towards Conetoe, they went to Southwest.
And then the  ones in the county area  up Edgecombe County, went to North Edgecombe.
Mm-hm.
And, um,  uh,  as I was saying, um,  I move up here in eighty-six, and um,  like I said, I-  And plus my dad,  they- A lot of people knew my dad.
See he's a minister.
And he got the oldest church here in, uh,  uh, Princeville RD-WORK-2 right there f- on, uh, Church Street here in Princeville.
He was.
Well he became a minister later.
Uh, he became a minister when I was about sixteen.
Mm-hm.
When I was sixteen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  well, I mean, He was a sharecropper.
And boy he still worked as a custodian.
And then was a minister too.
Mm-hm.
So, um- Hm.
No, um,  Now his church, they go to church every Saturday and Sunday.
But I went  a- as many Sundays cause, um,  we had things to do  at home.
Especially the girl had to wash clothes and clean up the house and  help cook dinner for Sunday, you know.
Yeah.
My- with- alone with my mom.
One younger brother and one younger sister.
Um,  Like I said basically on Sunday we went to church, but,  uh, well,  okay, my s-  Okay let me say this, my dad, went to church every Saturday and Sunday.
But we was in my- my mom church.
See we went to separate churches.
Uh-huh.
Uh that was White Chapel in Speed.
That was her mom and dad church.
So it was like a family thing.
So, um,  we really couldn't understand my dad church .
I mean the way they fellowship, a lot of- A lot of time.
Um, Because, um, when they preach it they sing.
Uh, it's the way they-  And we couldn't really understand what he was saying.
They sing words, and, um,  let me see how they normally do it.
See they Primitive Baptist.
And I could sort of describe it more than-  I mean I may can  sort of demonstrate,  more than I can say-  Okay.
Let's use for example, if they was- if he were preaching on Amazing Grace, okay, um,  he-  they would normally say,  something like, uh,  and see they don't have music, they make all of their own music.
And, uh, they- Okay let's just use you for example, if you a preaching on Amazing Grace,  And- and- and he be doing something like,  Ama- wait a minute.
A- one second.
Amazing  grace  how- it's a- it's a beat- it's a beat they have.
With- when  they  talking with their  hands and feet .
I'm trying to get,  the beat .
And you really don't understand what they actually saying.
I- I- I- I- I really can't get it right now, but sometimes when I'm doing it at home,  I think you-, but, um, Uh-huh.
Like a s- Yeah.
A-  a beat song-  I mean it's neat w- the way they do it, but  I like to,  understand the words, you know .
And  which I go visit sometimes, I- I still do.
And, um- RD-NAME-8.
And, um,    RD-NAME-4.
And, um,  but they- they be preaching from the bible, though.
N-  but it's the way they  be preaching it I- I- I- I sometimes don't understand what they saying, they don't bring the words clearly, what I'm saying.
Yeah he still the pastor there.
Matter of fact he a pastor at two churches.
See, um,    he go to different churches in his, um, denom- um,  it's the same denomination.
But, uh,  they go ,  they're different churches or denominations I would say.
And, um,  like,  he's a pastor of two churches.
He used to have three.
But he a pastor of, uh, two churches.
And at Mount Zion here in Princeville.
Which is the oldest, um,  black church.
And, uh, then he a pastor of, mm, um,  um, Art Willow-  Art Willow Primitive Baptist Church, that's in, uh, Falkland.
Mm-hm.
It's about the beginning of the United States.
Because they- they supposed be, um, n-  um,  builded like, uh,  the, uh, historical society do.
Preser- what you call it?
Preservation.
And, um, uh, historic- they supposed to be, um, help preserving that church because of it age.
Mm-hm.
It's a hundred something years old, I know.
It's Zion, but Zion is how many years old.
Mm-hm.
And I don't think they handle more than, uh,  mm, preachers.
I di- I did know that.
It- it- it haven't been that many preachers there, uh,  cause they-  they last so long.
I- I- I think he about the seventh, eighth,  Prea- Seven or eighth preacher.
Something like that.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Um,    then my, uh, granddaddy's he used to, uh,  own a barbershop, right be- next to it to, um,  the church, that I'm a member of in Speed.
My mom and dad, and, um, but plus it give a little time to- to- to see some of my other mama sister children and getting together with them.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
He was a barber.
Uh-huh, but its- it started in this store down in Speed.
He actually started  in, uh, never have a store cutting hair.
It was a little place right beside,  the store.
They used to use for a barber- uh, as a barbershop.
Until you know, made enough money and- and had his own barber built.
Mm-hm.
Well that's where his- his land was .
Right next to the church.
Mm-hm.
It was RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-5.
Mm.
He was- well he did farm work too, but he was a barber most all his life.
Mm-hm.
Yeah he had much influence  on me too .
I am missing out a lot of him.
Yeah he had much influence on me too, cause.
Yeah, cause he, um,  having a business, you know.
Um, had his own business.
And-  and, um,  he could tell you a lot about, um,  a few things.
You know, um, in finance, and in uh,  And, um,  A lot about business.
The handling business wise.
Mm-hm.
And get- try to get ahead in your life, you know.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, yeah, mm-hm.
Oh, okay.
And, um,  okay.
Uh-huh.
And- Mm-hm.
Ever since.
And you know it, like yeah.
RD-WORK-11 you know, that's the oldest and largest black insurance company  in the world.
Yeah.
Oh yeah and the- and also the lawyer of RD-NAME-4 I forgot about him, uh, yeah.
Uh.
Dr.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-7.
Dr.
RD-NAME-2.
That's- that's who,  um,    a lot of the people went to the doctor here and- Um,  RD-NAME-3 knows all the doctors too, but We had to help give him business too you know.
And- and RD-NAME-4.
Mm-hm.
Oh I just got elected last year.
Uh-huh.
Um.
I don't want to jump, but, um, yeah.
You want me to start with the flood?
Okay, um.
This was like, um,  a Wednesday night when it started raining.
So bad i- it rained that night.
It's raining more than I had ever seen.
And, um.
And where I stayed,  I was in a low level of Princeville.
So normally- Um.
Well, y- you-  Okay right behind my house,  there's a big field, then they'll go two fifty eight, and then right across two fifty eight is the dyke, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And um,      Yeah, that night it rained so hard.
So I said, see now it's working matter how- cause I say- my car, I'm gonna have to get out, and-  So I'm'a be able to work, so I say, I better-  I'll go to my mom and daddy house.
And,  and they move here a lot  earlier than I did.
They move over here back in  eighty th-  three, I think.
They done- they moved in Princeville in eighty three.
But anyway, they was on high-  higher ground than I was.
So I said, well I'm'a  take me a few things,  and uh, go and stay with them overnight, and hopefully this sun-  excuse me, the sun come out and help  the water go down.
Dissolve the water.
So, um,  that Thursday, sun came out so nice and pretty.
And um,  so I think everybody in Princeville was trying to um,  The water wasn't  like I said, the water wasn't high, but  basically on my side of town because uh,  I even had to go get my dog.
Cause uh, so he   cause when I got there, he was standing on top of his dog house.
And- and I- well sh- he's a German She- he was a German Shepherd.
And uh, so I had to w- I knew I had to  pull up my pant leg and walk through the water to go get him, right.
And uh, I brought him over to my mom house.
And I tied him up on the side of-  from her house,  that Thursday  and uh, she was raking the yard.
You know, cause we thought  all the water, you know,  it- it had stopped raining, because  it didn't appear to be no-  no more rain.
And um,  so I worked  some of that day, but I didn't know it was  anything was gonna flood.
Even went back  to my mom house that evening after work .
And I just saw a f-  f- um,    it's a few puddles of water in the road.
And like I said, oh that gonna be gone, you know, after a while.
So that Thursday night, I, uh,  um,  we all went to bed.
I charged my phone up.
And I-  We didn't hear nothing.
We didn't know nothing.
And uh,  but I know that morning,  I heard my, uh,  dog just barking  drastically that Friday morning.
That dog was- he was barking  worst I ever heard him bark before.
I said, what in the world going on?
So I gets up,  water is coming,  everywhere.
And I called her, holler at my mom, that my mom was in the kitchen though.
She was up.
But she didn't notice nothing.
She was in the kitchen cooking breakfast.
And, uh,  my dad, he was like back in his room, but he was, like, reading the bible.
And, uh,  and so  I w- I was looking on the front porch, I saw  debris and trash can flowing.
And water  was, you know, started  coming everywhere.
And so I get on my mom f- house phone  so the phone is disconnected.
So, I use my h- cell phone.
Which I'm glad I brought my c- my phone.
And uh,  I was calling around tryna find out what's happening, so I called to my sister house,  but she stay sh- well she stay over in- in Tarboro.
And, uh,  but my uh, cousin, she was over there.
My first cousin.
RD-NAME-3, she um,  answered the phone.
I said, what's going on?
I said, uh,  we not getting no more rain are we?
She said, no!
She said, no.
Said but you all gonna have to get out of there.
I said, what you mean?
Said don't you see a lot of water around here.
I said,  that's what I'm calling about.
And uh, she said,  it's a flood coming.
I said where all the water coming from?
And she said,  from- from Raleigh way.
That what she told me say .
She said she don't really know what happened, but she got out that night.
So y'all didn't- cause they was staying in Princeville too.
And she said um,  well did you hear that  that, um,  the fire truck horn blowing?
I said, no.
And she said, they was- someone was speaking on- on loud speaker  trying to get everybody out of Princeville because  the flood was coming.
And I said, what's flood?
She said,  girl, get off this phone, and if you can't drive out, you gonna need to walk out.
And uh, so I was talk- and my mom and daddy were standing in the door while I'm-  in the doorway while I'm  on the phone.
And she said, well what's going- They asking me what's going on?
I said we got to get out of here.
The- it's a flood  coming in Princeville,  and they don't know how  deep it gonna be.
And uh,  and so my cousin had told me say,  well in order for y'all get out early, she gonna call the  r- um,    the red cross, since my mom is a diabetic.
And they wanted  especially get those first, the ones that are under doctor care, right.
And I said, well yeah,  get somebody here quick.
So, um, we were gonna try to um,  walk on two hundred RD-ADDRESS-5 where my  mom and dad stay.
cut across out neighbor yard.
Like I said, they was on higher ground.
already to our knees,  but my dad, before we left sh- he said, let us pray.
Seeing out there was a lonely prayer, I told him,  look we gotta get out-  I said please tell god, we got to go,  cause   I said I know he understands  So, uh,   so in a way,  but he was gonna finish, when gonna finish he said,  because he is the highest being, he gonna take care of us.
And so, um,  my dad put on some boots.
He gave my mom a pair of boots.
I had a pair of boots.
So uh, and then our next door neigh- uh, their next door neighbor that stay right beside them,  they was getting out at the same time we were.
And um,  uh, we had to walk  to the corner of Otis Avenue, that's the street behind  my mom and dad house.
And a few other people was tryna  walk, uh, down Otis Avenue,  and so all us was tryna walk down Otis Avenue but,  when we got halfway down,  so much water was coming  it got-  me and my dad started coming who- far as we walk, the deeper it was.
So it got to our-  our neck.
So we had to walk back.
And it's- and then some of the other ones said  well you walk back the water gonna still come together, see all them haven't had come together  I said, well at least it give it time enough to come together  to give us more time  for someone else to come and save us.
Then we saw, uh, helicopters  flying over head.
We was trying to wave thems down, seem like they was getting the ones over on the rooftop, cause I did saw a few-  I could look down the street and see a few on- on- on the rooftop.
And uh, I did saw someone climbing up    uh, uh I guess it was a sheet, to try to get off of  something, trying to get  uh, uh, up on the roof.