If you got to talk about Princeville.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I have, uh,  fifty units over there that I manage.
Apartments.
Yes RD-WORK-3.
Mm-hm.
Well, if I live to see October fifth of this y- of this year, I will have been there twenty two years.
Mm-hm.
No I wish I did.
Uh, no, uh, they are privately owned uh, by share holders out of Johnson City, Tennessee and they have been here since nineteen eighty  one.
And they were of course,  in the disaster of the flood and they were rebuilt,  and we rented up in March  uh, two thousand  two.
Yes.
No I take that back.
Two thousand one we rented up.
Mm-hm.
But this here is, yeah, I don't know why I wanna think this is two thousand  five.
Yeah, yeah.
But we did, we actually rented up-  I was correct, two thousand two- March  two thousand two.
We rented up,  sure did.
Uh all the units.
We had rented up all those units  in less than forty five days.
Yes.
Uh we rented the pe- rented to the people to come back to live here.
Mm-hm.
Once they were rebuilt.
See, all the construction started on 'em in the year two thousand  one.
And, uh,  we were kind of amazed that  they were completed by March two thousand two.
And we were able to get 'em all rented up  in less than forty five days.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Housing business?
Well, I- I was  in school and, um,  I had taken, uh,  management course, and one of my instructors uh, looked at me and said,  you just have that pizazz to be a leader and not a follower.
So I thought about it one day I was on the job working   and uh, everybody was telling me to do this, do that.
I was a sup-  one of the support people in a group of engineers at RD-WORK-1.
And, uh,  I just decided well,  this isn't for me.
It- it's no sense in growing old into to it you know and don't like it.
So I left and, uh,  came home  and  so someone told me  about the apartments being built  and they suggested that I go over  and apply for it.
So  I never completed an application.
RD-NAME-4 and I just-  we just hit it off.
And, uh, today I call him my white brother.
And-  and, uh,  I guess it was embarrassment of it all, I ask him today, uh- Well I ask him sometime as a joke- RD-NAME-2 did you hire me in this business because  I slipped and fell in that mud with my pretty white pleated skirt on or just what was it that made you hire me that day?
It was nasty and muddy and they hadn't pulled- you know, pulled the curving in and the s- paving.
And I slid from one side of that curve all the way across to the other, and he came out and scooped me up-  I was- I was half my size then.
And, uh, too- he took me inside where he was  holding one the units as his office.
He was occupying one of the older units as his office space.
He brushed me up and down trying to get the mud off .
And  he said, you aren't gonna cry are you?
I says, no I'm not gonna cry.
I said- he said, well did you hurt yourself?
I says, no I'm not hurting.
It's just- I'm embarrassed.
That's all .
So he start just smiling.
He says, embarrassed about what?
He says, come on, tell me your name.
I say RD-NAME-5  RD-NAME-1.
He says, uh,  and why are you here?
I said, I'm here to apply for your manager's job.
And he just fell out laughing.
He says, well you know what, if you aren't hurt,  I think you'll make a dern good manager.
And I- he- he was looking at me hard, and I was so embarrassed.
Believe me, the tears were here.
I- I thought I was looking real neat  that white pleated skirt and that red sh-  uh, gingham blouse on.
And got over there and I slid all the way across from one side of the s- curve to the other.
I says, oh my God.
This man'll never hire me, looking like a little mud dog .
But he did.
So I been there every since.
And, uh,  when he finished these new units,  he wanted me back.
He told the owner, he says, uh,  I don't want anybody to manage them but RD-NAME-1.
Oh this- this was back in nineteen eighty one.
Alright I slipped in the mud.
I'll never forget it.
It w-  Oh.
Every since.
Every since.
Uh, yes.
I was still at home with my mother  and  my brother  and my two sisters  and, uh, I had two sons,  young sons.
And we were all with my mother.
Uh, we were at RD-ADDRESS-3 RD-ADDRESS-4, which was then RD-ADDRESS-6 because they hadn't, uh, finished cutting the roads and what have you all through Princeville  as they are today.
Mm-hm.
I was born-   this is kind of  special to me.
I was born down beside the area where the dyke is today  on  this side above Powell Park.
My front yard probably  would have rested  somewhat  right across in front of the dyke on this side of the river.
Mm,  I can remember my mother and my grandmother moving when I was  maybe about  six years old.
Mm-hm.
Uh, no over here in Princeville.
I used to live on Main Street.
When it comes to Princeville, I'm a pioneer.
I used to live on Main Street across from RD-NAME-3.
And so  we weren't financially ready to    renovate the house  and- at the time- so  my mother decides she was going to  rent at another location.
So we did move down  to the RD-NAME-2's home house.
You know where the CDC building sat today- occupy that space?
Right across from town hall?
That's where I was living at- at- at another time.
But by then I was, like,  nineteen.
I was nineteen then.
Mm-hm.
Yes and then my mother decided that she wanted to become a home owner,  so  we went over  to RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue and corner of RD-ADDRESS-2 and we bought a quarter of an acre land over there.
My mother and I.
Mm-hm.
My grandmother and, uh,  my one brother  and my two sisters.
And  you may have seen my sister, met her.
She is the- my sister next to me is the director of the day care center up here on Beasley Street.
RD-WORK-1  RD-WORK-5 up here.
Right down the street here.
Yes.
Uh-huh, that's my sister.
Her name is RD-NAME-3.
But  would you believe  another young  lady and I-  uh, well no, I organized the day care center  in Princeville.
I was the original organizer of that under RD-WORK-6.
I paint floors.
I mop floors.
That- that was in the old town hall.
Would you believe it?
Mm-hm.
The old flooded town hall.
Yes this was RD-WORK-2.
And of course, uh, before that,  I was the first secretary and acting librarian at the school here.
When they  f- completed the school, mm-hm.
I was the first secretary and librarian there.
Mm-hm.
Oh yes.
Oh yes.
I'm a pioneer when it come- come to Princeville.
When they removed the post office from Princeville, I was the thirteen and a half girl  that they used to go around and  put the addresses on the  m- individual mail boxes.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Oh honey, you have to fight me about being a pioneer when it comes to Princeville.
You don't talk about Princeville if you never lived here.
Mm-hm-hm.
Right across from that dyke.
Uh, in forty  two.
In forty two.
Twelve twenty four.
Yes.
Yes.
The dyke was not there.
That's what I'm saying.
It was not there.
Our-  th- there were like two sets of houses down there.
There was the- there were the houses that was  next to the river, and then we lived across the street from those houses.
So  it was in- now if my- my-  my mind serve me correctly,  it was like back in nineteen- somewhere back in nineteen sixty f-  five or seventy.
It was somewhere back there that-  Mr.
RD-NAME-2 worked with another y-  lady  out of Tarboro and they got the dyke in here.
But it was really later later on.
Yeah.
It was a many years later.
Yes, because you let it fl- let the water come up,  my grandma spanked my hiney for g- opening the back door looking out at the water standing out in the backyard.
Girl, you'll fall out there and drown.
Because see, the houses down there set up real high for that protection up from the water.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yes.
So she didn't allow it- when sh- when the water came up,  we were not allowed to go out the back because see in the back it was lower.
And, uh, we couldn't go out there.
It was unsafe.
Well, as a little girl,  I can remember the water coming up  just enough to aggravate us so that we couldn't  get to the pump.
Uh, you know.
And then finally, like I said, one day, our- my uncle came back home from the military and he purchased property down here on Main Street in Princeville.
So we left from that area.
And  then the- the next really  huge flood that I can remember  is a year of nineteen fifty eight.
And again, I was very young.
I- I- I- I think I was something maybe like about  I guess eleven years old, something like that.
And we had to leave Princeville.
We went out.
Some people owned, uh,  row boats and the motor boats and, uh,  my uncle took us out in a car  early so we went to my aunt's house over in Tarboro.
And, uh,  I boohooed and cried because I was ready to come back home and the water wouldn't recede.
And we had to stay with my aunt for like about a week.
And then the next  humongous flood  I'll say it was ninety nine that I remember.
And I'll never forget that one.
Well, uh,  as you can see today,  Princeville has never had  recreation for the k- children here.
And that- that's one of my big dreams because I  have known all of my life never to have access to any recreation here.
And of course, I attended school  the-  the RD-SCHOOL-2  RD-SCHOOL-2- building over there, the old town hall.
I went through fourth grade there.
Then, uh, we had to  catch the bus right in front of there and commute to the RD-SCHOOL-7  colored school   over in Tarboro from fifth grade through high school.
And, uh, like I said, there never been recreation over here.
There used to be a ball park  across from  the old town hall, back over in the wooded area.
And on Sunday e- evenings, uh,  they would gather back there and play ball  and  the kids would  sneak back there and play around while they were playing ball.
And of course our- our  most entertainment  was to go to each other's  yards  and play games.
Oh,  we played hop scotch.
We played Ring Around the Roses, all that little stuff they taught us at school.
And  in the- in these recent years,  some of the kids have been a little bit more fortunate because, uh,  RD-NAME-4 came into the area and, uh,  implemented some summer activities for the kids.
But in my- at my time  of  say in recreation and entertainment,  Princeville had  nothing to offer.
Mm-hm.
Y- y- our- my best friend, uh,  we would go from my best friend to someone else house to play, uh,  ride bicycle or something like that.
There were no recreation here.
Mm-hm.
Yes, uh, see, like I said, when we  fin- completed fourth grade here, we had to commute by bus  to the RD-SCHOOL-8.
And, uh, that's where I graduated from.
Mm-hm.
Yes that went all the way from fifth grade to twelfth.
Mm-hm.
Yes that was segregated at that time.
And of course, there- there were recreation through the school system there.
Like, uh,    the football, the basketball and the baseball.
Mm-hm.
Well,  I'm one of those people can adapt to almost anything, and as far as segregation goes  with me,  I guess I never realized it was there based on the fact  that from the time I was fourteen  I was in a- in a Jewish household.
By that I mean, I was-  they were teaching me how to cook  Jewish- Jewish meals, uh, I was doing the marketing for them.
My cousin had got me a job  with one of the  r- most wealthy Jewish families  in Tarboro.
So see recreation- I mean uh, segregation was a thing, uh,  set aside for me because I wasn't really, you know,  concentrating on it because I was involved with these people and  they didn't treat me that way.
Uh, as a matter of fact, uh,  Mr.
RD-NAME-2  the gentleman I worked for and his wife and family,  everyday was Christmas with me with- sharing that- their household because they  never  failed to come from the store and bring me a gift or  he was always calling me  my little girl,  you know?
And- and I just know- I- I never had any recognition  for that thing of segregation.
No, not- not at all.
Mm-mm.
Right.
Right.
Well after high school I accepted a job over here as secretary to Mrs.
RD-NAME-5.
She was a principal of the school, and I stayed there for two years.
And  then  they set up  the  community college and I start taking classes there.
And from there I went to East Carolina University.
And I had two years  there in  Early Childhood Education.
And this is when I came back, and I organized the daycare center here under RD-WORK-6.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Well,  you gonna make me embarrass myself now.
Let me tell you.
I realize kids were not about me and I was most certainly not about them I had a little boy that kicked me one day, and I cried.
I cried.
I told, uh, the lead teacher that was  w- w-  the other lead teacher,  I says,  you know,  I gotta go home.
There is no way I can stay here with this kid and not punish him-  So I went home and after that I- I just realized this, hey, this is not about me, you know?
I had worked with kids in the- well I'll say in the  surrounding of kids, but I was a secretary.
I didn't have any direct contact with them.
And, um,  would you believe it, I have since then sub  after the flood,  we're right at a year  and was begged to come back because of the tremendous job I had done.
Can you believe it?
I-  I sit down sometimes over in my bedroom in the dark and I-  I says I- I don't believe these people say I done an excellent job.
And then I wouldn't stay in that profession when I was in it.
So  yes,  and that was not for me.
Oh yes, oh yes.
And- and I feel good about that.
I feel most good about that.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
You know what it's like when a kid kick you right here?
And then you- you grab it and he spat right up there?
And you- and- and the lead teacher see what's going on- on the other side of the classroom.
She comes in,  she says  don't touch him, don't touch him.
And tears were just running, and she says, go to the bathroom, go to the bathroom.
Don't let him see you cry.
It was painful.
I was little.
I was skinny.
So it- it was hurting.
Well,  mm.
I did do some  special tutoria  reading work for the county.
Then I decided I wanted me a job that would  give me a year round income,  and, uh, I  went with RD-WORK-4.
And I managed nine departments for them for like about four years cause  I basically  just  you know,  looked into the stock being  plentiful and  help  with the register and all of that.
And so I stayed there.
Yes.
RD-WORK-4.
Then I left there- Yes and I went to RD-WORK-1, and then when I got to RD-WORK-1 I left, and I been at the apartments every since.
That was truly my calling because  in working with the apartments, I get to travel and train some other managers.
I also  attend workshops and training sessions and  I- I thoroughly enjoy what I do now.
I am flexible.
I'm my own boss.
And then at that time when I went to this job at the apartments I had a son,  uh, to leave home, and he went to RD-SCHOOL-13.
So that- I- I really need the flexibility and th- all of this just fell right in place.
Mm-hm.
Well I collect rent.
I rent apartments.
I do a lot of talking with people, interviews, and all that stuff.
And  believe me,  some people look at me  in action,   put wheels in motion is in my job.
And they says, how do you do it?
I couldn't remember half of the stuff you talk about to these people.
But,  you know, I love people.
I'm a- I'm a people person.
I guess that's the reason I'm still a commissioner.
Well back in nineteen eighty eight I had a young lady that was  renting an apartment from me,  and she d- decided that she was going to leave the area.
Uh, she at the time was representing ward two of Princeville.
And she moved I think down  Georgia or Florida somewhere, and, uh,  RD-NAME-5,  a dear friend and the mayor at that time,  uh,  called me and asked me would I  complete her term.
And I said yes,  without thinking.
And  from then  through present, I been there.
Mm-hm.
It's been beautiful.
It has because, you know,  uh, from ninety-  three, ninety four   ninety four, ninety five, ninety six -  Well  ninety two I believe it was, I left office.
I decided that when RD-NAME-2 was gonna leave  his mayorship  I no longer wanted to be there.
And then after  uh, RD-NAME-3 came in and they  took our finance records and everything and we fell in the hand of  total disaster and it wasn't a flood,  I decided I had to go back.
So that's when I learned how much I love Princeville.
And  I went back,  and I'm still there.
Yes.
Oh yes.
Well, uh,    when the flood came,  I was  feeling  very good about Princeville.
We had a million dollars  in the  bank.
Our general funds were looking really good.
I mean,  we were- Let me say like this, I felt like we were in power.
And  we were going places, doing things.
Princeville was shining.
It was glowing.
And  then one night,  I realized  it was raining.
Then the next day it was still raining.
Then by the evening it was still raining.
And  I'm nervously just sitting there.
And I get a call from  the mayor,  and she's- she's telling me I need to get my people out.
So- This was on a Thursday.
So I sat there and I'm,  well I don't-  where I'm gonna tell these people to go?
So by this time, the phone was ringing again.
It was my brother-in-law  and a nephew.
They were calling me  to let me know that I really need to get serious and get my people out.
But see the hang up came  because I had been calling the sheriff department  inquiring about the water and they couldn't tell me anything or they wouldn't tell me anything    but nevertheless,  I decided I had to do what had to be done, so  neglecting myself,  I leap from that chair in the office  cause I was living in the apartment  next to the office.
I was a site manager at th- what they called me at that time.
So, uh, my husband,  he was on-  he had just retired.
He had just retired, bless his heart.
And we went out and we were  banging on doors because my sister, being a nervous wreck as she can become,  we had gone to her house and gotten her and brought her over there.
So all of us got out and we went around and banged and beat on the windows and the doors to alert all the people  that they needed to get out.
And I went through a lot of insults but I can deal with that.
I had par- I had mothers to come over there to see about their daughters after  they got on the phone and called 'em and told 'em I said they needed to leave.
And uh, they cursed me and they-  they verbally abused me but I got over it.
But I got 'em all out  but one little lady,  one of my elderlies,  and she refused to leave.
She said she was gonna wait for her son.
So I guess  she waited for her son and the next morning, I understand his  vehicle drowned in the water.
Uh, the mo- the engine drowned in the water and he just did get her out of there in time but  later I was told by the police that I'd done the best thing  not to  force her out  because she had her rights.
And I woulda been in the wrong.
So today I'm happy I didn't touch her.
And, uh, I'm very happy to say that she's still alive and well too.
But- Uh, her name was, uh,    RD-NAME-4.
Mm-hm.
So  I about-  I- I guess it played on my conscious that I didn't get her out and  things being as they were and the water staying in here so long,  I didn't get to see any of my people.
Any- as- as my husband say, any of your folks.
So one day I happen to go the clinic  and when I turn around,  here this lady stands.
Oh I almost picked her up.
Cause really in the back of my heart, it had been troubling me just how she was getting along, you know.
And so she's fine.
She is great.
I'm doing just fine, I'm telling you, so  that was a relief.
But  I suffered because  I couldn't  bring myself to focus on  the town,  so I was down with my sister and her  fiance.
That's where all my family went  when we left the mall that night, we went there to his house.
Yes.
Yes.
We- we only lost all of our household furnishing.
And, um,  I'm gonna make you laugh.
And, um,    we even lost some money in the flood, but  we came back later and we recovered that.
My husband had just gotten his income tax check, and, um, we had a- a bar that sat  center of one of the walls in the dining area.
And he had s- left the check up there and some more cash money from rent.
And, um, we came back- you wouldn't believe it- we  got everything cleaned out of the apartment, and he was going in the bathroom.
And he had given up on the money,  so  he w- goes in the bathroom and he happened to look.
Here lay the Bible,  the envelope,  resting beside it  the money  scattered about  a foot around  in that same area.
Just laying there, waiting for us to come and get it.
But you know when I came over here and went in that apartment, I told my husband,  I said it looks just like the devil himself got up in here and made a stew.
And  my- I- I wouldn't have never believed that  furniture on top of furniture.
Our big nice console TV,  I think it was standing on its side, resting on the side.
Uh,  but, you know,  I- like I say, the flood, it really never t-  dawned on me how  devastating our situation was until, uh,  I realized one day they called me and said we got to meet, we gotta  decide what we gonna do about our town.
And my husband say, you gotta go to the meeting RD-NAME-1.
Cause I was going around in a daze you know.
So I got dressed and I went to the meeting.
All these  Corps of Engineers  people and everybody there to  talk with us and ask-  answer any questions that we had to ask.
And, uh,  I realized then,  hey,  you and the citizens of Princeville  have no town and you gotta make some decisions about your town.
So you gotta stick with these other commissioners and the mayor.
So after that I got involved  but  then finally one day uh, they told us we could come back to Princeville, and, uh, when I came over here,  it's still like- it was just like I was dreaming, you know?
And  my husband said we gotta clean up.
We got to start  doing things.
And I didn't realize it  until the people came in  from up in Pennsylvania and  they start  helping me clean out  my furniture and  it still didn't dawn on me until they brought my piano out  and, you know, I- here I am,  I've watch one son  in college play that piano,  learned to play there in that living room on that piano.
And here's  his son now learning to use it,  and when they brought that piano out, it was something about that way that piano just-  the legs just folded up.
And oh, I just start boohooing.
That was the first time I cried.
The very first time.
And, uh, I realized then that everything was gone.
And I cried and I got it over with and  the little ladies from up there,  they brought out various things and asked me if I wanted to save them.
And I told her, I didn't know.
I just didn't know.
And-  an- It- it hadn't really hit me.
I was attending the meetings concerning the town.
but when they brought that piano out and, uh,  I realized  I was looking s- s- so forward to my little grandson playing that piano  because he had start stroking  the keyboard you know?
And= and when they brought that piano out,  it was just like,  ooh.
The rain came back.
And I'm saving this space hopefully I'll get one.
Get another one anyway.
But, uh,  it- that was  really  the most devastating point.
A realization  of that flood right there and then for me.
Out of all that, I realize  that we're gone,  it was  not  real to me until that moment.
So  I'm still-  sometimes I think about it.
I go right to that  very pont- point to realize.
And, uh, believe me, we were dreaming about going to Hawaii, doing all those glamorous things with our savings and now you see our savings.
This is it.
Yes.
Thank you but  I- I got busy and made up my mind that  I didn't know anything-  I didn't know any place else but Princeville.
And  this was gonna still be my home.
As a citizen, I realized then that  God was trying to tell us something.
And, uh,  me,  I got the message.
I realized what the message was from dealing with  all those people  that I worked with  day to day  in that  one little complex.
I got the message.
And I know- I knew too also  that  Princeville could not be Princeville any place else  but here.
See you- they could tell us to move down the highway about eleven miles, eight miles or  six miles or five miles, that wouldn't be Princeville.
This is Princeville.
And I knew that I would not vote for anything but to come back home because this was all I've known all of my life.
Uh, you know,  you- you can't move history.
You can't move history.
And I- I've known all of my life that right across here,  where the school is  and on back, I can remember when there were cotton fields over there.
I can remember right down here at this corner,  there used to be a lumber yard.
And this was Princeville.
See you can't take me to a new landmark  and I stand there and look around and say well,  there used to be this here and there used to be that here,  but you know because  these things were never there.
This is the original s- landmarking for these things.
So we have to preserve them.
That school over there, that's where I went from one through fourth grade.
And no one can take that building and carry it no place  and change my memories.
I can remember stopping in RD-NAME-2 store every morning before I got on the school bus.
See those are things nobody can take away from you.
They can't take you down the road and say we're gonna bring RD-NAME-2 store and place it right here.
It-  it will change  the whole concept  of the history.
So this has to be Princeville.
The old people that I remember that used to live here,  uh, in the little one room shacks, the old people that I- I can remember getting on the cotton trucks and my grandmother uh, the places that  my church today used to sat before it was moved  to where it's located now.
Macedonia Baptist.
Macedonia's the next oldest church in Princeville.
Mm-hm.
You know where it used to sat?
Do you know where, uh,  the- the, uh,  I think it's the uh- it's uh-  what is it?
Uh,  there's some kind of a shop right there at the stop light?
Uh, Lynch's- Yeah, that- right off sixty four going back out the bypass.
You know, that, uh, dwelling in uh- what is it?
Place right there on that corner?
There used to be a big old  gin house thing, like a building there that used to have a occupy- a s- it used to  well, house a store.
Our church used to sit back down in that  lower area behind there.
See what I'm saying about history?
You can't- and-  and they moved our church.
They brought it out and, uh, they put it over here on this corner where it is today.
And then when the flood came in and got it,  we still put it right back there.
See?
That's what Princeville is.
And I can remember the big church Saint Luke Disciples, it used to sat  right down here  on uh, Mutual Boulevard, right off of the river.
Really.
And see these are things that I grew up  knowing.
And hey,  you can't take me too.
I think it's a little place down here called S- uh, Shiloh Farm Road and those places and it's gonna have the meaning  to me  that these landmarks have when you come up into Princeville and know what used to be here.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2, I can remember the little long  one room building he had for a store,  Mr.
RD-NAME-3, his father, and I was a little kid and used to go in there and buy candy out of the jars and little things like that.
See people can't  tell me about that.
Mm-hm.
By taking me down the road further.
Mm-mm.
Oh yes, my grandmother raised me.
Mm-hm.
Well my grandmother uh, she was just a common laborer out- she would do field work like,  tobacco and cotton  because my mother,  uh, was a trained dietician at the hospital and so my mother- my grandmother more or less babysat us.
And  sometimes,  uh,  if my grandmother saw a need,  she would take us out of school for a day or two and take us to the cotton fields with her.
And  we knew all of her old friends and  we watch- well they watch us grow up as a matter of fact.
My sister  and I'm- well my m- my sister, my brother, and I.
Cause my youngest sister she came along  later  in the better years.
But, um,  I-  everything that I-  I really  can recall or  rules and things that I live by  are things that my grandmothers,  you know, taught me through the years.
Now my mother was there,  but she was that workaholic.
Her name was RD-NAME-2-  RD-NAME-2.
Mm-hm.
My mother's name is RD-NAME-4.
Mm-hm.
And my name is RD-NAME-1.
Mm-hm.
No, not RD-NAME-3.
My name- I'll tell you who I'm named after.
My name is RD-NAME-8  and I was named  after-  you can look this up- Senator RD-NAME-4's daughter.
Her name was RD-NAME-7.
Mm-hm.
Yes and as I-  Yes.
Yes, my grandmother used to do that.
But, uh, her-  well basically her duty was to  babysit us.
Let me get this.
This is probably my mother.
I mean, he helped my grandmother and my mother raise me And my uncle, like I said, he had a  short military career.
And  my- we-  my mother was a single parent.
But I'm proud to say she educated  all four of her kids very well.
Uh,  my brother's an attorney in Greenville, North Carolina.
And, uh, his wife is a dentist there.
And my sister up here,  she's working on her,  uh,  degree now.
She doesn't have but a few months.
My youngest sister has a degree from school, business school.
And she is working on, uh, her degree  in computers now at the community college.
And I guess I'm  b-  brain dead so I'm not doing anything right now.
But um, nevertheless, I'm proud.
I have a son that has like, uh, come September, eighteen years in the Air Force.
I have a younger son that's, uh, pursuing  a medical career, and, uh,  my oldest son was killed, uh,  a few weeks after this- being discharged from the-