No not e- exactly in Princeville.
Inaudible Um,  about  twenty five to thirty years ago.
Forty two.
So I was  born here out-  moved here at a young age Yeah but I was you know, raised in Edgecombe County, went to all the city schools.
Uh-huh, probably about ten or twelve, was that old.
Yeah.
So I grew up around here in this area all my life.
Uh, right outside of Princeville.
About a mile outside of Princeville,  highway.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-5.
RD-SCHOOL-5.
Um-     Never fails, does it?
Um, RD-SCHOOL-5.
Mm.
RD-SCHOOL-5.
Aw that was the day where you had to walk to school.
Uh,  we had to walk to school based on the distance you stay from the school?
So we was in walking distance, so we had to walk to school during that time.
But it was uh- it was the old high school.
And then uh, so it was- it was um, so fun.
They- I don't remember a whole lot about those days, but um,  those couple of days.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
Basically um, many of-  probably ninety eight percent of my friends are from right here in this area.
You know,  so close to Tarboro so you all go to the same school.
So you- you either see 'em in school or see 'em after school.
You know, cause it's not like you're miles away your just feets away.
You know?
So.
So we rode the s- rode the same busses and everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, middle school we had to walk to school, but high school cause of the distance we rode the bus.
You know, cause that was like three miles.
You know.
Um, probably  almost  not quite a mile, but  probably half a mile.
You know.
Um,  mem- remember the-  this- the- the tales uh, when  before they built the dyke um back when they released it to um,  slaves, um, where they got the name Freedom Hill.
And uh, they used to talk over here  many stories about how the town used to have like a hard rain, it used to flood all the time, so it's been flooded, it's nothing new except for I think there was- there was never  to this mass.
You know?
But um, they- it's nothing new to see them with water up this way back in those days.
I've heard many many tales about that.
That's why you don't see a lot of houses back towards the river anymore now because of that.
You know.
So those- some of those tales that they used to hear- they used to tell us about .
Uh,  that- other than that used to be  the grocery store here at-  right here at- right beside the fire station sort of?
And it used to be a dance club  on what- on two fifty eight.
So it wasn't  that many people probably in town.
At that time, you probably were talking about five hundred people.
Uh,  little- little more than that?
About a thousand or so.
There was really nothing over here.
Everything was across town.
So uh, anything you really wanted to do you had to go across to town of Tarboro cause it was a small- small- just a small community at that time, you know.
So that- that's all we had.
It's just now is starting to expand.
You know,  so it's on the rise now, but back in those days it was different.
Probably just  like I say, a thousand people in the cemetery, you know, which is uh, old- old cemetery down the street.
And then so, that all was here.
No.
There were no stores on that street during- during that time.
Th- the only store I remember was  this one right here called  .
Y- yeah, people called it Benny's Store.
It was a real real old store.
After the flood, he didn't- he didn't reopen after the flood.
Yeah, he didn't reopen, but it's the building right here beside.
That was the only store you had to go to.
You know?
Oh yeah, you uh,  walked.
Many- tenant people call it walked for a time.
Rode bikes,  um,  very few people had a lot of car- you know, had car, you know, so you basically walked Yeah.
No, there's uh- there's not a- Nothing.
Well you know, that's then.
You know.
So we do have a tennis court uh, and basketball court now that we didn't have then.
So there's a little bit more to do but um,  yeah, it was- there was nothing to do.
You know, there was absolutely nothing to do.
You either had to go to the town of Tarboro or pretty much stayed at home and mind your own business.
And uh-  um- but  sad to say, but back in those days, you could  leave your door open.
And trust your neighbors and- and you sleep with your door open.
We actually done that.
But you can't do that now.
But   you could do- actually could- you know, could do that.
So uh,  we do have a few little more hang out spots now.
You got the grocery store on Main Street for a little bit more activity wise than we do in- heck, now you got a carwash you didn't have before.
You know, so we do have that.
And we're gonna get a park you know, down here on um,  riverside, the old trailer park back there, that's where the dyke first burst?
They-  They didn't bring that back but we're gonna get a park out there sponsored by Lowe's.
Yep.
From the old A and T University.
Um,  we just played with- well,  Tarboro had its own park.
We would go over there to uh,  place called East Side Home.
And cause that was the closest p- place you could go to in walking distance.
And uh, we used to go there.
Most of us  been ove- uh,  used to go to the  black clinic cause it's right across the bridge cause it's closest, and there was a uh, black doctor at the time and he  was very very cheap you know, so he- he looked out for us.
You know, so we- we just go to the park, uh, play on the monkey bars and  um,  just meet new friends.
That's- play in the sand, in the dirt.
Go to the pool, did a lot of swimming then.
we did a lot of swimming.
That's probably why we some good swimmers now.
used to do a lot of swimming.
Uh,  played street basketball, go in people's backyard and just create our own basketball court.
You know, we just played uh, what we called sandlot football at the time, but you just get together and just  throw the football and whoever get it get it.
And sort of, throw things like that, so we really kind of enjoyed going to school.
You know, cause it was  a time where you got to uh, see new people and- and different people you don't see during the day cause it's like, you over here and they over there.
You know, so that's how- that's how it actually was at the time.
I don't know remember anything about um-  about the bussing situation, but I heard tales about it.
But uh,  yeah, I wasn't riding the bus at the time so I really wouldn't know anything about that .
But you know Ooh yeah, uh, how you,  you know, you couldn't ride the bus, you know, and- and whatnot, so I don't- but I just- weren't born at that time.
When I was born you could ride the bus.
Inaudible  Right, right, the public busses.
The s- school busses for the integrated schools.
Yeah.
Yeah, mm-hm.
Matter of fact, we had our own schools.
You know, we had uh, schools- or RD-SCHOOL-3 then was at the all black school.
Yeah.
No I didn't.
When I went it was integrated.
Back then.
Mm-hm.
It was already integrated.
I couldn't tell.
Um,  my first school that I went to was the uh, af- elementary- was RD-SCHOOL-3 which I walked to school there which was only probably a hundred yards from my house.
So, uh, I don't remember-  I can't remember any- treated any different  you know, cause we all played  together, so I don't remember anything.
And at that age I probably wouldn't have cared.
You know,  I probably wouldn't have noticed it, so um,  but as I got older I started to realize that  you know, we were different.
And, you know, and we were treated different.
You know?
But uh, you know, that's  how they would deal with it.
You know what I mean, I mean we still treated different though.
Um,  not directly  but  I felt- that's my own personal feelings of what I could see what would just be here say because it could have been my thoughts.
But I have never been  I never been  called a name that I can remember.
Never had a name called.
I've heard it, you know, and- and everything, but I never actually been called a name.
I guess cause I was sort of a friendly guy.
You know, so   I sort of stayed-  treated everybody the same, mind my own business.
You know, so I got along with everybody so I followed by example-  a lot of name calling.
But I do- I did hear of some being called a n- whatnot, and I did participate in uh,  some of the school- We did have one incident when I was in that- at high school where we done felt that black students was being  treated different because it seemed like there was more blacks being suspended than there were  whites,  so um,  we had a protest about that.
And got some results  behind that.
Uh, so that said, that's-  that one event I just can't seem to get out of my head.
You know,  So, I didn't really know what I was participating in but I knew when I got there what the rally was all about.
You know, so I didn't- I weren't the ring leader or anything, but uh, the ring leader is- is- has passed on now, but uh, things changed after that though.
Yeah, things changes after that.
Uh,  I don't re- I do remember  that main street store, so I can't remember that a little bit there- there was  stores that was black only, a store that was white only.
And I do remember that.
Just enough to know that I can remember you know, what corner it was on but I don't remember going in  uh,  certain kind of doors because of that.
I don't remember seeing any signs that said Blacks and White.
They were there, I don't remember seeing 'em.
You know.
Mm-hm.
Yes sir.
I've been here ever since then and um,  first joined  the fire department, got entered in them in like, around nineteen eighty one.
So I've been here since eighty one.
You know so but my entry was in the town long before that.
Uh, because like I said, we played sports together.
Because when the school was integrated, we came to the same school.
Whether you stayed in Tarboro or Princeville, you all connected be at the same school.
So um,  I used to walk from  my house to Princeville to play sports with some of the guys I knew that went to school- went in- here in Princeville and played uh, sandlot football at the school and everything, so.
I do remember those things.
Just-  Only thing I can positively remember  uh, is that we- I played.
You know?
I mean, I was a playing type guy so it- it- it didn't really- it didn't really matter to me.
You know.
Um,  I actually became a firefighter  uh,  in nineteen eighty one  uh,  actually the-  June of nineteen eighty one and been here ever since.
So uh, always had a interest in  helping people.
You know, I said one day I either wanna be a fireman or a police officer.
So uh, uh,  became a volunteer fireman  um,  and I know uh- I do remember that night I became that  and it was a  enjoyable night and I just  seeing if I could come by and saw what they did and said, well I would like to do that cause I'm out there tryna help people.
So I said that's- that sort of caught my interest.
And then, see and hear tales about how this  fire department was struggling uh,  but at the mean time, you had to put  money  out of our pocket into the truck just to put fuel into the truck.
You know, so I said well,  uh, I could be a part of that, you know .
So that's- that's  when I first became interested was in nineteen eighty one.
Well I saw a  they came-  had a fire-  uh, small fire at my house, at my residence.
And um, uh, it was nothing to it, it was a small fire and it kind of- the response time was pretty  poor.
And that  made me a little upset and wanted to know what- why.
And uh, uh, luckily we was able to put it out ourselves but that  made me start looking into it more.
And- and that's when I really start realizing the word volunteer fireman  meant volunteer.
You know?
You know, so sitting there waiting on- you could hear the fire whistle from here from my house.
And I could hear the fire whistle constantly blowing, and I wanted to know well where's the fire truck?
You know, so um, uh, luckily it was nothing major and I- I- I appreciate that but  if it-  Those were the days were really you  you either heard the fire whistle or you didn't hear it.
And if you didn't hear it as a fireman, you probably  didn't respond.
You know, so our response time back in those days was extremely poor.
You know.
Yeah.
You know, try to see if I could help.
You know, and- and whatnot.
So that really caught my interest then.
And I think was only a couple years later,  maybe two to three years later, that's when I joined.
You know, so that's when I- I  kind of joined, say well maybe I can offer them some kind of assistant which volunteer.
You know, so I knew coming in that we weren't gonna get paid.
And the word volunteer  firemen  does not- did not sit real good with people.
You can say no pay, but that don't sit real good with people.
Oh yeah, everyone here is volunteer.
Uh, well if you're volunteer you never have a day off.
No.
It's all volunteer.
So that means that if you're busy, you're just busy.
But if you can come, when it- when the tone go off, uh, you can come, you come, if you can't, you can't.
It doesn't mean I can't go  out of town because I'm a volunteer fireman, just that you have to  put trust that  you have enough of 'em  to respond in case of an emergency.
Yeah and the whole county's like that.
Yep.
Yep.
We try to keep enough on the roster to make sure that-  Well the dedication that you have- It's all about dedication.
You know, you can have fifty  but they're not dedicated, I could have a one.
You know, so if you have  uh, dedicated people,  somebody's usually around.
You know, we- I communicate good with my assistant  uh, chief and captain to make sure they know if I'm out of town and they let me know if they're out of town so communication is very important.
Let people know where you are.
Uh,  we get  a lot- we get more fire calls than any fire department in the county.
And uh, we get  probably EMS calls, which we, uh,  respond  toll free and first responder now- we go on first responder level, so we probably get  three times as many  those call ins, as we do fire calls.
So the fire calls is-  we have our months  where we're extremely busy and we have our months when we pretty quiet.
Mm-hm, we do EMS.
We just don't transport.
We just do first responder, things like that.
Help get down there bring the aid for 'em.
Exactly.
And uh,  we have a outstanding response time now  when we used to have a response time has uh, increased tremendously.
We have guys now that spend the night down here.
You know, it- but it's not mandatory.
It's just- i- they have nothing else to do.
Those are the ones don't have a wife in their house .
Those are the eighteen and nineteen year old ones that can do that.
Married men don't do that.
Yeah you have to be at least eighteen years of age to be a fireman but you can join at  sixteen if you're a junior firefighter.
But you can't participate in firefighting unless your department  allows it, ours don't allow it.
most of 'em are uh, heart attacks, um,   calls, uh, difficulty breathing, get a lot of difficulty breathing uh calls now.
So most of 'em are EMS calls.
Yeah.
Middle age to elderly people uh, sometime not taking their medication or can't afford to get their medication or get a lot of calls uh,  routinely to the same resident  a lot of times.
So you almost- when you hear the address on the radio you already know who it is roughly.
So  uh,  we do do all that.
See we're in a- we're in a neutral location, which allow us to run mutual aid for every fire department in the county except for  section thirteen, I believe is .
So that's one of the reason why we get more calls than any fire department cause we always assisting somebody else.
Right.
Mm-hm.
We help everybody but one other fire department in the whole county.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
It keep us-  on our toes.
Mm-hm.
Uh, the dyke.
Mm-hm.
In the early sixties wont it?
Cause they extend it since the flood.
They raised it another so many feet since the flood.
Cause you have uh- it was there, uh, put there in the sixties.
The dyke was built in the seventies?
Okay.
I don't remember any other flood other than just  low level floods, you know, where you could walk in it,  where it would be sometime like almost knee high, but  as far as  evacuating the whole town, I don't know more- I don't think we had a lot of those type floods.
Oh yeah, that happened every time it rain hard.
Yeah.
Every time you had a hard rain, you can look forward to water cordoning across the highway.
You know, that- that wasn't too- that was normal.
And I think that's why a lot of people took the flood less seriously because their  memory from the old days.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, just you know, a little knee high water that go away but that didn't go away.
And uh, that kept coming.
Pretty much so they stay in.
You know, um, m-  they wont a lot of houses back this- it was like more away from the river.
You know, but the one that was up this way usually was the one that got the water in their yard.
But yeah, they just pretty much stayed home.
Yeah.
Yeah just thought it was gonna pass over,  gonna rain a little bit of water you know, let's see- Plus even with the dyke now,  there's low level area in people yard where the water still stands, so a lot of people just see that as just hard rain with water in their yard.
And didn't take the- didn't take the leaving seriously.
You know.
Mm-hm, I was here at that time.
Um,  well he was chief and I was assistant chief,  and um,  when we first start hearing it on the news, of course, you know, it was coming this way,  I think we was here at the station just  on call  and uh,  we got a  guy from- that was checking on the dyke,  went to town and that was his job, to keep us in- posted with the dyke.
And he saw that the dyke was rate was still rising at uh, think he said was four inches an hour.
And that- and he said we need to either  try to help sand bag it, or we need to look at evacuating the town.
So we had already started to evacuate  people- the- the elderly to the town hall at the time.
Uh- I- I advised them to open up the town hall to at least get 'em somewhere.
And once we got 'em there we got the word that they can't stay there cause it- it was still rising so we had to try to locate somewhere else and we end up locating 'em to Tarboro High School.
Yeah, and we actually  uh, evacuated them with the fire trucks.
You know, uh- The decision was made when we was- when he was at the dyke and uh, they was uh, sand bagging the dyke, saw that it wa- it was gonna go over it based on the  whatever report they was getting.
So we decide to just stop sand bagging, and just say, evacuate the town.
The mayor made the decision and we just of course just went from there.
You know,  and that's- and that decision was made somewhere around what?
Uh, eleven?
Ten past one at night.
Yeah.
Inaudible So we was-  we stayed up  probably all night just evacuating people.
Yep.
Sure did.
Once the decision was made we just went on and-  course the phone was ringing off the hook cause there was rumors we was gonna have to evacuate,  people had to leave.
There was some that at the time  was told not yet, so it was crossing up the communication lines so when we finally got the okay we started telling people then, yes.
We went out on the truck and got on the- the um, microphone or horn and just let 'em know that you need to evacuate.
Um,  not realizing that in some area it was already too high for them to even get out.
We didn't know that.
You know, we didn't know that.
So we drove in and uh, couple friends  help  themselves and couple guys had their own boat,  and we were using their boats to go into the area that was- water was high enough to get the boat in and put 'em on the boats and  bring 'em out.
And we was- I remember bringing people out in a chair because they couldn't walk so we let 'em sit in the chair and brought 'em out  in the wa- in the water you know, to- to the boat.
Especially in this uh, elderly department it was called Prince Court.
Prince- Prince Court.
And uh, that was our biggest problem.
You know, it was our biggest problem.
Um, but I do remember  going in downstown  and the water was probably  several feet already, that was-  near where the river runs?
That there was already flooded and we didn't even know it.
So it s- sort of like closing in on us.
Surrounding us, and we didn't even realize that.
Oh yeah we was in much more danger that what we was told.
Yeah, it- so uh,  I drove across the highway to go in that  area  two hours later,  there was the water too deep to drive the truck through.
So we found another car back there so me and RD-NAME-1 went out there checked it out and you couldn't drive- drive the truck through there, it was that- that quick.
You know, so  and I'm wondering well, I stay back there.
So I'm looking  well, where is the water coming from?
You know, but it had passed through and that area is low.
There is no dyke in that area.
So the water just- was happen surrounding the town of Princeville pity say nobody even realized.
Yeah.
But they realize- On uh, Ridgewood Road on  Highway.
That's where the- after the first starting to-  you could tell you was in trouble.
through that area right there.
Oh yeah.
I called 'em and told 'em that-  I actually- I went home and changed clothes probably two or three times just to get out of the wet clothes?
And I told 'em they could go ahead on and leave, thinking that we was gonna be back in a couple of hours.
You know so we didn't take anything.
You know, so we realized then that we was  um,  not gonna be coming back, you know, for awhile.
But yeah, I- I warned my family and the neighbors- and the people in the neighborhood, and the- try to comfort some families, let 'em know, well yeah,  you- you need to evacuate, but I can't promise you when you will come back here.
You know.
I mean, people were just  hesitant about leaving.
Cause they didn't actually see the water in their yard.
You know, so if they see the water, Gonna be  in danger.
And you know, it's not like a tornado you can see it coming, you know this was the flood.
You know.
So if that dyke had burst  a little bit sooner- which I have pictures of that-  if it had a burst a little bit soon we woulda been in really  serious trouble.
And um,  so that was the very first area that we was asked to evacuate, and most of the people was already gone.
No  was already gone.
I think we only had like, fifteen families that actually still there.
So they didn't take any chances cause they was right there on the river.
And they could see it.
So they left.
You know.
Oh yeah.
We had quite a few stay a little too long and they had to be rescued by uh, Army helicopter.
So we had some that just stayed and stayed and stayed, while-  I know one lady  that's friends with uh,  family who  didn't know  that the flood was that bad.
And when she woke up the next morning, looked out the window and saw water.
And it lucky that she was able to drive her car through.
Just guessing between the house and the mailbox, using the mailbox as a guide and knowing where the road sposta be.
And just drove out with she and her mother.
She made it.
She made it.
She made it.
Yeah guessing where the road should be.
You know, and she was probably but one of the few that stayed in our whole community.
You know, cause she say, where everybody at?
Everybody was gone, when she looked out her door and all she saw was water  probably this high.
And she knew it was time to go.
You know, but we went out there in our own neighborhood to warn our own people- let them know that, you know, you might wanna go.
And at that, we used boat out there in that area  to get out people.
You know.
And it was amazing though because in one section you could use a boat  and another section you couldn't.
There was absolutely zero amount of water.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
You know, we did what we could.
You know, there's never enough man power to help on a situation like that on such short notice.
After uh, notifying the fire marshal, uh, he said that  help was coming but it was gonna be several hours getting here with the um, National Guard, I guess.
But um, that would- that woulda been too-  too long.
You know, so when people who really needed to get out, two more hours woulda been too long for them to stay in- in a area like that.
It was actually the front line.
It was very front line.
First attack.
Yeah, so we actually  probably played a major major role in helping rescue cause that was actually their job.
Uh, but we was assisting them cause they had heavy duty equipment, at times .
You know but as time- if the truck could go, we took the truck.
You know, and like I said, we just  uh, put people that couldn't walk  and put 'em inside the truck and rescue vans and things, and just  uh, throw 'em out there with- and even our trucks.
We would help them anyway we could, to get 'em out of that area.
And there was- and there was some that was very very glad to see us, you know.
The one that- the one that- that  the most was the one out here in uh, Prince Court when we had to actually bring- When we pulled up there was people standing in the door sweeping water out of their house.
You know, so we saw that and we asked them- I asked them, I said why didn't y'all call us?
They said the phones weren't working.
So the water was rising, nobody knew it,  so uh, we had 'em going back there just out of a guess, they probably woulda been in trouble.
And you know, but some of 'em couldn't walk, so they was still sitting in the chair when we got there with water in the house.
So uh, those- that area right there, incident, I remember the most.
You know, people could not come out on their own and  carrying 'em out  uh,  you know, in chairs and put them in boats, uh, that would have been uh, enough for a movie.
You know , that was a movie in the making if we coulda caught that on tape.
Yeah.
Oh yeah that was- and it- but we didn't realize it was water up here to our waist and chest everywhere-  walk-  didn't think twice.
We just wanted rescue those people.
Didn't think  how- whether we were gonna step in a hole or not, we just think of the people in- in that area.
Uh, we had mostly down trees than power lines.
I'm glad of that.
Uh, we had mostly you know, debris to work with.
Yeah, I'm glad of the power line, they stayed up.
You know?
I don't think we woulda got in the water had been in a- in a- popping sound or a-  probably wouldn't have been able to get in there.
But we had people, we had firemans spread out in all different areas.
You know, we'd just go- We was on the radio just saying, will you go check this area?
We'll go check this area and uh,  you know, it was just amazing how some area had several feet of water and just right beside their house was no water And uh, fact that's the way this area is designed.
You know, just- it's had some strange design.
we have everybody- the house is almost submerged, and some people, the houses never  it never touched it in the same community.
You know.
Oh yeah, there were- uh, in Southern Terrace, I know.
No houses made it in Princeville.
And those- there were no houses that made it in Princeville but in the- in the area down the highway there about  half a mile,  there were some that-  that would fate a lot better than others.
You know.
Because they sit up- one of 'em sit up on a hill.
Unintelligible on a hill.
So obviously that would save a lot better.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  well,  they had to.
You know, they had to build 'em up, you know, to build 'em back.
So that's- that's good in a sense but  course you - there's- nothing's gonna  out level that if it- if that happens, so.
If that water comes over the dyke now you got a problem.
You know, you got a serious problem.
But that dyke has been raised if I'm not mistaken quite a few feet from the- from the previous height so if it comes over that dyke now,  and I've seen  make you think.
And uh, went out there one day, and I- it was enough to make you wonder.
You know, it was only probably a good fifteen feet away from the top  highest point of the dyke.
You know.
Mm-hm.
Another rain storm we had.
It had rained for like a week.
And water had um- had  rose quite a bit.
And that's when the town started seeing a lot of phone calls cause you could see going up the river  that highway jutted from the uh,  railroad track how high it's getting and it was pretty high.
You know?
And uh,  and even now when the river just rise  period now we get phone calls.
You know, is it gonna flood?
Or is everything alright?
Really, you know, it's just, you know, people just now panic when it- when it rain now period.
You know.
I don't think some people will mentally ever get over that.
You know, I don't think they will.
Yeah.
It's been recovering  actually faster than I thought.
Cause I'm sort of surprised to see that many people come back  so soon.
I rode through there after the flood when they allowed the public to come through?
And um,  and it's- it look-  it just look like a ghost town.
You know, I mean when you see houses sitting in the highway,  you know, that water pushed in the highway and everything, the houses just tore all to pieces, just yesterday, just didn't look like that and today it's just like,  you know, a- a- something out of a horror movie.
You know, when it- when everything like that, so you could ride through here on a boat and practically touch the stop- the stop light with your hand, that's how high it was.
And now I think it got probably  a foot from being completely to the ceiling inside the fire station.
You know.
Pretty much, wont it?
We just about- Yeah.
As a matter of fact, cause I saw the pictures and it was probably about that much from being from the roof.
Yeah.
Oh yeah it's been redone.
Uh- Oh yeah.
Yeah, I think uh- there was no house to save in Princeville, so whatever you see is either been remodeled or been replaced.
I mean, it's not- there was nothing livable-  in livable condition in this town after the flood washed away, oh it was nasty.
Yeah.
Let me open it for you.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
You can see it- you can still see it on the old town hall now.
You know, so it was- it was just  amazing.
You can see it pretty high, no doubt about that.
So.
Oh yeah, they on the rise now.
looking forward now to even bringing in more businesses now so you know it's- it's on the rise.
So we just  hope there's only one way and that's up for the town of Princeville.
We just have to hope that.
You know.
We hope that it be true.
Yeah.
Um,  well with the  neighborhood that was flooded  uh, think most of all those residents  are back-  are new.
You know, cause I don't think we- they didn't enter into the buyout program to decide to come back.
So either it's either your house or someone bought the house  and someone- and something else you did on the- on the lot in ninety days, so um,  actually look like the flood  basically never happened.
And you know when you look around, look like a new town.
You know, so you ain't look like the flood just never happened.
You know, so.
But you know it did.
But after so much new stuff around here like just a new settlement.
Like a new development.
the new apartment building looks beautiful.
You know so it's just like, everything you need.
Someone now growing up would not even think of being- uh, seeing it this town actually like it looked.
You know, cause so everything is just so new.
And some of the businesses that wanted to come  that was here before the flood,  uh, either they came back or someone now taking their place in those buildings, so everything is back operation.
Yeah.
Everything is back to normal.
That's a good question.
I think  one of the things that  you know, is if-  uh,  when people had to- sometime hate to drive all the way across town just to get a soda.
Uh, if they put a business over here, you know, maybe we can drive there and get that soda.
You know, so uh, that have a lot to do with it.
You know, if you- if you're closer, I'm just gonna stop here.
You know, so that has helped a lot.
You know and then people just got used to going to this location and those same people are still returning to those same stores.
You know, so that's- that's the main thing.
Just  closer, just quick access.
You know, I think that would be the key.
You know just quick access.
Yeah.
It is back to close to where it was.
I think we've had uh, think last night found out it was little over two thousand now, about twenty two hundred  and it had like twenty five or twenty eight.
You know, so it's not far away you know, from after being a hundred since.
And so that's- that's great.
You know, that's great.
I mean that's- that's shocking though.
In- in  two years.
You know, that's shocking.
I- I think a lot of 'em- well for one thing so many people own their own property over here.
And they- and they just rather rebuild on their own property help cut down cost.
Uh, Tarboro don't have it so much land for you to go to and a lot just 'em didn't wanna leave.
I hear a lot of people say well call the job, you know, closer to their job, they didn't wanna go to another town, so you know, it was just convenient.
It's just convenient for a lot of people right now.
Somebody been on their job for ten years won't move in- into another town, and drive back  here Tarboro to their job.
You know, they just wont gonna do that.
Uh.
Yeah,  you know, the risk will still be there, but it just old conveniency.
You know, that's all it was.
You know, just more convenient for me to come back home.
You know- Yeah, it- yeah.
Just come back- Yep, your roots is here and what then, I don't think a lot of people r- that's in this town realize the roots that this town really  has.
You know, I mean to be a part of town of this age, you know, and- and it's- it's really, to me, an honor you know, to be a part of that.
And I- and I would guarantee you most people- Now these guys, their age know that, but I guarantee you younger guys, the teenagers, don't real appreciate the roots and the history that the town has  left behind, for them to have this piece of land, to know that slaves wanted to live here.
You know, and they don't- they don't know that.
You know, or the know it and don't appreciate it  mentally like we do.
You know, they don't- they don't do that.
All they looking at is  football game Friday night, you know .
You know, I got a- uh, a date but they don't- they don't know that.
Then they'll probably look back on it same as we do cause nowadays you know, younger people have that uh, different type mind than-  than- than-  the older generation at that time, you know, .
But um,  you know, that just-  that's true.
And I'm beginning to now  soak in the fact that  you know, the oldest black town chartered by American is- it's- it-  when you have the faith that's- that's amazing.
You know to- to be here and be a part of that is actually amazing.
You know?
Uh, so maybe someone will wanna come through here as a tour site.
And that's what they're working on is you know, make it so that people wanna come see this town.
You know, to know that so, I think  uh,  it's possible  you know, as many  you know,  Black Americans ought to- should at least ride through at some point in time one day to just say they- they've been here.
You know, cause there's a lot a lot of roots here.
You know.
I say  hope that they'll- they'll do that.
Actually probably when I was-  I would say thirty.
I started to- to realize then that at-  when you're on your own you start looking back into  the- the days now saying, you know, well, uh, yeah, I start hearing this about what the town is  this and town is oldest this and that and started saying, what do you mean the oldest?
Cause I didn't know that.
You know, so if you're the oldest town, this and that, you know, you gotta think about everything you do uh, is pretty much the first.
You know, so the first  fire chief or the first police chief is the very first one of the oldest town in the-  you know  so you just, you know, I won't be the first anything, but you're asked to be a part of that- that history will be-  is- is- is an honor.
You know, to me, it- it- it's great.
You know, and I think it should be  an honor to anyone  to be a part of a town with that kind of history behind it, whether it was  black or white or whatever, it should be- it's- it's good to be a part of something to that- to that level.
You know.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, it's some- some sort of specialty to it because it's the oldest and the first.
You know, just like  you can take a movie star that's from Princeville and you won't look at 'em the same when they come back to Princeville as you would if you take somebody from another state.
And I don't know if that's mental or what but um, if I weren't from Princeville and visit here I'll be  more appreciative that fact that  I'm here in the- in the oldest town in America- black town and so you know but to know that now I grew up in this area and I'm part of this area now I appreciate it even more.
You know, I appreciate it more.
And that's why I kind of wanted you to speak to some of the older guys while they were still young.
You know?
While Milton's still young.
Oh man.
About thirty years.
Uh,  yeah.
Government wise.
I seen some good days and some- and some tough days.
I won't- I won't use the word bad, I just say tough days.
Uh, so uh, seen 'em come through some- some dark cloud.
You know, I- I seen some times when you think the town is really going  under, you know, came out.
You know, and- and with flying colors.
And I wanna continue to see that you know, um-  Uh, I remember probably about  eight to nine years ago when- How long it been since RD-NAME-2  been gone?
Five years?
About five years the town was really really in a financial bind and uh,  in my opinion it was sort of under some  very very poor management.
And uh,  sort of  had everybody concerned, you know, and luckily the state did even- have to come in and step in to help with get the town back on track but  um,  you know, we don't wanna see that.
You know, we wanna be able to run our own town and handle our own business like that.
Accept the money from the state, you know, but let us spend our own money .
So we wanna- we wanna see that and  uh,  we- so we- we're there now.
You know we- we still got some- some I guess they say rocky roads or tough bridges to try to cross over now, but it's- it's gonna get there.
It- it's gonna get there.
Um,  well I remember the employees  quitting,  um, going on strike because they were-  they felt they was being treated unfairly at- on his administration.
Uh, I think everyone quit on his administration except for one person.
And that was one of his police officers.
His fire chief quit.
People under him quit.
Um, the police chief  quit  and all his staff quit, except for one, so.
Um, all the- I think every ?
one of the town employees um, are new from his administration though, so.
Uh, it was just in uh, turmoil.
You know, just people felt like he weren't really concerned about the town and uh,  the way that it was being handled and it was- it was sad because the newspaper spoke about it and it seem like Princeville is- is sometime in my opinion, seem like we sort of- if there's an inch of negativity, people take it and make another mountain.
You know, so uh, they- they fail to sometime report the positive things that goes on in the town.
And I wanna see more positive things reported  than negative things about Princeville.
Cause there are some positive things in people over here.
You know, and don't forget those people.
You know, everybody's not out to uh,  bring the town down or- or- or we out to make sure that whatever bad we can  help do this, you know, make it better.
You know, but um, you either wanna be a part of the team,  or you just wait for the team.
You know, but don't make it worse.
You know, so that's- that's my philosophy, you know, just try to come in, do whatever I can do to help.
Help the town uh, grow.
You know,  so that was a sad day to remember, but um, he was a tough-  tough character.
You know, and eventually they had to come in and uh, remove him  through uh- through the state and charge him.
You know so that's- that's that.
They say but we- you know, that- that had to happen.
You know, but uh, they eventually charged him with some, uh, things that  he shouldn't have been doing.
You know, so we don't wanna cross those bridges.
You know.
That was back in- was it the eighties?
Or late- had to have been the late eighties?
Nineties yeah.
We're only talking about five years ago.
That's- that's, uh, ninety-five, ninety-six.
So that's- That's not a long time ago.
Ninety-six, okay.
Yeah so that's not a long long time ago.
But we hope he's long gone.
You know.
Uh,  I don't know who was president back during that time.
But it was good though.
It was .
They say the economy was good but the morale was coming down.
With all the administration problem that was going on, but the morale was certainly coming down, but and but.
Uh, people attacked.
You know, that was happening back then.
and so but now it's gonna hit the administration.
I think the town started- I think more people started coming to the meeting  than they ever have in a long time.
And you done had a- some kind of meeting with four or five people, and then so when this happened, a hundred.
You know, everybody was- was  more people than what the building could hold.
That's how concerned that people were to what's going on with- with the town at the time.
And so when RD-NAME-4 a negative  strike against the town I can say that we'll rally together.
Yeah they would come together, try to-  it's something about their problem.
The problem must be removed.
You know they will do that.
Yeah, they will do that.
Oh yeah.
A town this size should not have this kind of problem.
You know, that should be  problem such as  um,    well I crashed my car so  it shouldn't be management management constantly.
You know it just people sometimes-  uh,  I would like to see the town give people more of a  expansion time frame to  see what they can and cannot do than to judge 'em on the first month or so and-  and go that route.
I would like to see people give people more time to you know, to see what they can do.
You know we- we have short tempers.
You know we don't have a- you don't show,  you got to go.
You know?
So- so we need to kind of  ease off of that some.
Give people more- more time to get themselves together.
You know, cause if you come in on a bad ship,  ship not gonna  become a good ship over night.
You know and we-