Hey how you been?
Alright.
What that?
What that?
On the- on the house?
the flood?
It was about four foot over my house.
Mm-hm.
O- over top of it .
Another four foot over top of it.
Seven days.
Well- well we couldn't even get in-  into the house at all.
.
Oh.
On  on eleventh down by the graveyard.
I used to a long time ago.
When it first started.
Mm.
Regular m- meeting right now.
Oh yeah.
But listen, what I'm saying, how come I ask you cause I stop by, saw your truck.
I got to go get my son to work.
Okay.
And uh- uh-  if you- you uh- you stay down here all day?
Or what?
Oh yeah, okay.
Well anyhow- Okay.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Lord have mercy.
No, I moved here in fifty seven.
Nineteen fifty seven.
I been here ever since.
Say what now?
Uh, I stayed on  the  farm for three years before I come here.
But I stayed on the Howell- J.T.
Howell farm all my life.
You know where that  club- That one over at um-  You know where Frank stay?
You know, my brother Frank?
You know where uh- old man  house and all that crowd was?
Right there.
That  tall pole you see out there, but I don't know if Frank  by our house front yard over there.
Right there at that tall pole.
Uh, about five, six, .
Did what now?
Y- Oh, started about the same times.
Start together.
Yeah.
Mm, yeah.
Yeah.
Here, what now you say?
Uh.
Do I want what?
Well I tell you what.
I tell you what.
You leave all the messaging with him and me and him'll get together, but I can't you an answer Ask a question.
when I was in the army.
World War Two.
I  in the Buffalo Division.
Yes sir.
??
I was there World War Two.
Well these people been by to talk to me, times after times since the flood you know, they- they really have.
Yeah.
Oh, you recording it on tape- okay.
Oh, okay.
I see.
Huh?
Well you can.
I got to go though.
Unintelligible.
Yeah I can.
World War Two.
Ninety Second,  Buffalo  Division.
What did I do?
Well I was  really, uh,  combat soldier.
I w- I- I fought  in World War Two.
Sure did.
I used to shoot that big gun, that's why come I, uh,  can't hear on that side.
It's- the gun i- in between us?
I was on this side.
I used to pull that linger on number three.
And, uh,  from that,  you know, uh- that- that gun is different cause it's a- that was a big gun I was firing.
I w- it wont no little thing like I got there in the house.
It wont nothing like that, that one oh five- a one fifty five, and w- every know and then we had to get that two forty.
Yeah.
Join in with General  Mark Clark, I think that's his name.
General Mark Clark.
And he would- Yeah.
Uh, he would,  uh,  w- t- explained to us that he had been pushed back  thirty mile in the  Atlantic Ocean.
That what he said when he  when the Buffalo  soldier got in there.
Naples, Italy.
That where we landed there on.
Got on the .
That what was on-  was on the ship.
Sixteen thousand black soldiers.
Yes sir.
That- my outfit was a black outfit.
Uh-huh.
So he told us,  made a speech to us, he said, uh,    Mr.
RD-NAME-2 get the guns straightened out.
Say, I want y'all to come on up on the line and face old General Kesselring.
He was a German General.
So, uh,  when  he got up on the line,  I was on number three  going to a six gun battery.
I was on number three.
I had the  end.
First one is shot.
Okay.
He tell us, sh- fire one round and see where we were hitting at.
Then I- he told me to fire another.
So what d- what we had to do  is they find a target where we were trying to h- get.
And we found that target.
That one had made me feel good.
Said, turn loose now.
Twenty five rounds apiece, and I was a natural-born pulling that linger.
I used to love to do it.
Old General Kesselring come backing up.
So you got put two  for the one oh five, so when you pull that one out and put the one fifty five there.
So we could reach him anyhow.
Next thing I know, General Kesselring-  but for f-  before he'd h- hoist the flag though,  we were intending to put that two forty in there.
We'll reach him, sure enough.
But he h- he rol- he uh, throwed up the white flag.
Uh, we surrender.
Okay.
Left from that.
We went- come on out, uh-  I'd been up there nine months now on that-  in that same place  fighting, where we didn't never have to move.
We just- we would- we had to get a bigger gun as he was backing up.
Well he backed up so far in the- in- in the  Atlantic Ocean, he couldn't get no further back, so he had to stop.
And on the same time,  our, uh,  tank  commander,  George S.-  George S.
Patton, I think that's what his name was.
Uh,  he told old  Adolf Hitler.
He was the k- he was the President over there in, uh, Berlin.
He say, I'll tell you what now.
Say, I'm gonna give you a chance.
Say if you don't give up, he said, I'm gonna spin my tank wheel right in the heart of Berlin.
If it cost me two o-  GR truckload of dog tags on the twenty fifth day of December.
He didn't get there on the twenty fifth day of December.
Something happened and he couldn't make it the twenty fifth day of S-  December, but he w- got on the twenty sixth day of December, the next day and come going all around in there, tearing that- honestly, it's true, cause mowing it down- I'd like to see somebody mow down a yard with a- with a-  with a  um,  lawn mower.
So he throwed up the flag.
So the next move we had to make then,  said, ninety second  Buffalo division.
That- that was my boy talking now.
He said I was at that tour ,  I'm gonna call old- old Tojo,  from Tokyo, said that's where we headed now.
Lord Montgomery, he was over there that Royal Air Force, And that was the baddest thing in this world, now don't let nobody fool you.
They're all Air Force.
He said, if you don't give up before we get started, say I'm gonna darken the sky  like a cloud.
Now we were just- I was listening at the same time  I was listening at him talk.
He said, if you don't give up, see I'm gonna darken the sky  like a cloud.
And said, uh,  I'm gonna put so many bombs on top of Ber- uh,  Tokyo, with that B  Seventeen.
I know you heard talk of the B Seventeen and B Twenty Four too.
That thing- them planes, we don't carry nothing but them big  loaded bombs.
He said, I'm'a darken the sky like a cloud.
Said if you don't give up, said I'm gonna break Tokyo-  Tokyo aloose from the Earth and let it float down the Pacific Ocean like a ship.
Tojo said never happen.
He throw the flames up over there too.
So he called us again, said Ninety Second Buffalo Divisions, I got another announcement.
Said we were supposed to been load you on that ship  that go Tokyo.
Said, but we don't- won't have to go over there now.
Said, but I'm'a still load you on the ship  and send you home.
Lord have mercy, I went crazy.
Lord have mercy.
He didn't- And that's what he did.
Send us home.
So  that-  that go to show you right there that Ninety Second Buffalo Division  won World War Two.
That gon- that show you?
Alright.
But they wouldn't give us no credit, and still won't give none to the day.
Now cause we're all black soldiers.
That's what it- what it's all about.
What's that?
What- what you saying now?
No cause them black soldiers didn't care, do they.
Just like I didn't.
I would  and beat you half to death if i-  cause I was trained to do that see?
That was all back with my first training.
For to- for to fight them Japs, you know, them Japs  big, that big if you don't know how to fight 'em, he gonna whoop you to death.
But, uh, I took training from  the highest class there was, that would  you remem- I know you know hear talk of Joe Louis.
I took training from him.
He told me, said,  my number one t-  one twenty eight.
It was one twenty eight, that was my number.
Didn't never call my name.
Always call me by number.
Said the way you can hook anybody you meet up with,  said, I'll tell you how to do it.
I don't care how big he is.
Say if you get close enough to him, say job his eyes out right quick.
Put his eyes out, you can beat him to death, and that's exactly what I do and every time I-  somebody bothered me I job his eyes out and come out and beat him half to death.
I don't care how big he was.
Yes, sir.
That's right.
I proved it when I come home too.
I do- sure did.
Um, and if they shoot, Lord have mercy.
I take a rifle, and I guarantee you five hundred yards, I would put that-  that,  um, uh,  in that little bullseye about like that.
Well long as I could see it, I could put them on sit duck,  every bullet, I put right in the center of that bullseye.
Expert.
Three years, two months, and two weeks.
Sure was.
Was I driving?
Oh yeah, I was drafted.
Yes sir.
Yeah.
What did I do then?
Well,  I s-  s- stayed single for about-  from- from-  I stayed single I reckon about six, seven years.
Then I got married and it was,  you know- Went back to the farm.
Mm-hm.
I moved to Prince- from- from- where I ?
Well,  I moved in- Well f-  w- where I moved at- where I'm at now?
Fifty seven.
Yeah I w- c- come home in- Let me see now.
Wait a minute now.
Let me get this thing right.
Let's see.
Fifty four.
Fifty five.
Fifty six.
Fifty seven.
that's right.
Fifty seven.
Mm-hm.
I s- I stayed over there on- on Mill Pond three years.
Uh-huh.
Well see,  back in them days,  my daddy way back there a long time ago, he used to be a carpenter.
He helped build Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
Yes sir.
And uh,  uh, he was planning on down there where we- where I'm at now, building a house down there for the family.
He had a big family, nine head of boys and  about five or six- about  five girls.
So- No.
No.
No.
Five under-  We were- I'm the- I'm the- I'm the fifth boy.
We were nine head of boys, I'm the fifth one.
In the middle.
Mm-hm.
Five girls.
Huh?
Uh,  December the seven,  nineteen twenty one.
It's all brothers and sisters.
Mm-hm.
That's right.
Well we'd- Well all  the rest of the  family worked on the farm.
Well he just did carpenting, you know, extra.
That's how he kept his family going.
Uh-huh.
Share- the farm.
Sharecropper.
Mm.
Oh, I had a good time.
Yes sir.
I really did.
I had a good time.
Yeah.
Cause my dad always kept a car for us.
Mm-hm.
Bought a brand new- But you- you remember that thirty eight Chevrolet he bought?
For us when I was going to school.
A black thirty eight Chevrolet?
You don't remember?
Y'all had a- What kind of car y'all had?
Y'all had a- a-  I don't either-  But anyhow, me and him  just about come up together.
Mm-hm.
About- Say what?
Oh, at school.
That's right.
That when we got- that was in uh, after I m- first- I moved here, that's when we joined the fire department.
But we went to school together.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
That- Down in Conetoe, yeah.
Mm.
Same place, yeah.
You know, long then, people come from every- It's like just the school right here.
They would come that way.
We would come that way.
That way.
That way, like that.
Course we didn't have no bus to ride.
We had to walk.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
I liked it.
I didn't have no- no choice.
I liked it.
That's right, didn't have no choice at all.
I- I enjoyed it myself cause see, uh,  there was enough out there to- to keep you company anyhow, well you do, you know, how that kind of-  yeah.
Mm.
What kind of what?
Some of everything.
Pick cotton, pull, uh,  br-  oh-  tobacco and  shuck up peanuts and stuff like that.
but now see, you got machines that do all that now.
But at that time, we were the machine.
That's what I'm saying what.
We ain't had none of that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
All us- all us were together.
Brothers and sisters, all us just get out there in that cotton patch and tear that cotton patch all to pieces.
Yes, sir.
Yep,  going to school too.
Just through the seventh grade.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
But every now and then, we had to stop, you know, and  go back to the   catch the farm up and all that kind of stuff.
I didn't get- I didn't stay in the right study all the time.
Along then you had to- had to  go work the crop and try to get as much education in school cause I ain't got no education now on account of that.
Sure ain't.
It got a  education.
Well,  uh,  I had enough brothers and sisters on- over top of me to keep the r- younger ones in school all the time.
Uh.
Til I got big enough up until-  up until uh,  they put- pulled me to the Army.
It's-  October the fourteenth.
On October the fourteenth  to December the seventh  that's when I became twenty.
Yes, I was twenty years old.
Mm-hm.
When I g- when-  you know, but-  but I there for a little before I was twenty, see.
They pull me before I got twenty.
But I wasn't fully in October.
Well,  yeah, we were trained all along, you know.
We're  trained in Fort Bragg.
And from Fort Bragg to Fort Huachuca, Arizona.
And then from Fort Huachuca, Arizona back to-  to uh,  uh,  Lousiana.
Back and forward like that.
Uh-huh.
I stayed in training from October the fourteenth nineteen forty two  until  forty three, forty four.
I went over to- over to  in uh,  in that Naples, Italy in forty four.
And uh, stayed over there about  a year in there about.
There cause it was as soon as- about seven days after we got over there, they put us on the line.
And I was battling on the line for nine months, and that's when they  surrendered.
Understand?
So they told us then that they were gonna ship us to South Pacific.
But they didn't ever get-  The Japs and things surrendered before we got to South Pacific.
So that's how  from there on home.
Mm-hm.
Right on back to the farm again.
Yeah.
All e- all except the time I come up to where I'm at now.
Huh?
Went- Went to uh-  Left from there, went to Gum Mill first.
Yeah.
And from there, I went to  Mill.
And s- Back with him.
I was right together old- nobody- you ever worked there- you worked at Gum Mill?
You did?
The- the gum mill.
It was here on the railroad track.
You didn't ever work there.
Well I worked there about two years and a half.
And from there to  Mill.
Yeah I worked there twenty five years  at  Mill.
And since I retired from there,  uh, I ain't done no more work.
Not you know, regular, I just  do  here, there and everywhere.
I- I worked with a boy working building cabinets like that .
Well I took that after my daddy.
Y- All that kind of thing.
I w- Mm-hm.
Oh,  blending- working in the blending department.
Yeah.
Worked there for twenty five years.
I was started w-  working there nineteen sixty.
Worked there til eighty five.
Now?
Yes sir.
I'm retired.
Well I don't do hardly nothing now tell you the truth.
No better-     No, I don't do too much nothing now.
M- and m- Try to.
Uh,  see I used to.
The whole family was living there one time there about.
Cause we had four houses.
We had one-  Where I live at now  where my- my sister lived at,  my brother lived at,  and my mother lived right down the line.
Uh-huh.
But, uh,  since that time,  s- some moved or different places, you know, like that.
Yeah.
There ain't nobody- ain't- ain't nobody there right now.
But me and my sister, you know, at the time, she can- she did- what- she would come back and forth.
But she still got the house.
And my-  the house next to her,  that's where my brother was staying at, but he moved- he bought a house over in East Tarboro somewhere and let his daughter k- take the house.
And that m- house my mother was staying in when she was living,  his let his son take that house.
So they all four of 'em is occupied but it ain't by the same people that was there all the time.
Mm-hm.
Do I have a lot of children?
I got three living now.
One died.
I had four- I had  three boys and a girl.
But it- it, uh,  The girl and two boys is living now.
One of 'em died.
died in eighty six, the day I r- the- the year I retired, he died in eighty six.
Mm.
No my- my son now, where I'm going to  work, he stay right down here in Pioneer Court.
Mm-hm.
Pioneer Court.
Right down the street there.
Mm-hm.
Uh,  n- that's what I was telling you about in the houses that way up uh- that- that my family right on too.
Heck, the young ones, they  working somewhere I reckon.
Mm-hm.
My- Well I got a daughter in  Brooklyn, New York.
I got a son  in Poquoson, Virginia, and my other s-  my baby boy,  the baby of the family- of my family- he would- gonna get ready came to work,  in a few minute he- he work for Sara Lee.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-3.
What it's like now?
Uh,    well,  I can't hardly say cause I ain't,  you know,  I still live  as far as that concern, but it's a little on the tight side now cause the government took their-  president and all them crowd done took all this money away from 'em.
They had to go out  Tokyo to Lyn.
Huh?
They done took they building money from you?
Mm.
See I was getting a veteran's check.
Yeah.
A veteran check now.
And that veteran check  mean  that if I had to go to the doctor, hospital, anything like that,  I keep the bill that I had to pay, and they would refund it back to me.
But they cut that out.
Yes sir, sure did.
The only thing I get now is, uh, uh, retirement  and social security.
They had cut my retirement out,  uh, my so- my social security down  but I- we raised so much sand,  and went on there to you know- di- went different places.
They finally put it back in there like they ought to.
Maybe they had a mistake.
Maybe I- Sure was a mistake.
You oughta know better than that.
Shoot.
Yes sir.
You don't- you don't talk up, they gonna  uh, get somebody that knows more about it than you do, you in trouble cause they ain't gonna give you nothing if they can help it.
That just the way they do things too.
Mm.
Yep.
How long did we work that fire department, RD-NAME-1, do you know?
Yeah.
Oh yeah?
I know you been in it all the while.
Uh,  eh.
Say what?
Yeah, uh, ain't   when I worked at  Mill, he was my-  What was it?
Lead man, supervisor, whatever you call it.
Yeah.
We got along fine.
Ain't never had no problem.
Sure did.
Mm.
What?
What-  today?
N- no, sh- after I get my son to work, I won't-  ain't gonna do nothing no- from then on out I reckon.
Mm.
Might do some little piddling work around the house or something like that.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Which one?
Over this way?
No I didn't know nothing about that.
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Well where you-  h- where you located?
Uh-huh.
You're in Raleigh?
Oh.
Oh yeah?
Ah, kay.
You do?
Oh you know the history of it.
Well I mean, he was at- he was sitting right side of me just like I see you right now.
Yes sir.
Me and him,  talked together for  I reckon about three or four months, that long.
The whole-  longer than that.
Uh, we was in the Service.
Yes sir.
There- I knowed him before that, but I just- I just- only then I got acquainted, where I could sit down and talk with him.
Him and old Sugar Ray Robinson.
Both of them.
How did I know 'em?
Well long time ago when he would fight, you know, we would always  l- watch that.
You know, when we were fighting-  your different places.
Well,  well then, when, uh, he coming  through the Army where I was at, Quite naturally I'm gonna know him.
Yes sir.
I knowed him.
When I got acquainted with him, that's soon as I can see him too.
Sure did.
I always liked  to talk with somebody or  know somebody that know more than I do.
And uh, he was telling m- that job, that's how I learned how to  w-  h- how to do  that kind of stuff I was talking about, through and by him.
Yeah.
I seen him fight natural.
Yes I sure have.
Out there on the post.
Out there where we were stationed.
Mm-hm.
Let me tell you this, and then I got to go.
Well, um,  the guy who he was fighting, the man told him, said, now look,  cause you gonna have to stay out his way.
Everything- I don't worry about that.
He was hard headed.
You know how some people just know- think they know so much.
So we ask Joe, say,  Joe say- well ain't-.
Joe , but he wasn't a bragging man.
He won't brag in a bit.
He said, do you think you can put him out?
Said, I ain't worried about it, said you bring him the ring.
He was a great big guy.
He was- Joe Louis weighed  two oh two, I'll never forget it.
And uh, I think that guy weighed about two  twenty five or two thirty, something like- he was bigger than Joe.
But anyway,    when they w- went in the ring,  they rang the bell, ting ting.
He done kind of like old Clay, I know you've seen him.
Got him go back on the rope.
And Joe Louis hit him a l-  cross right and a left hook to the jaw and turn around and come right on out the ring.
Man, where you going?
He said, I'm going to my dressing room.
Say, what-  you- you know he might come back.
He said, he ain't coming back.
How you know?
Said, I know what I put him down with.
Said what you put him down with Joe, a cross right  and a left hook to the jaw, and that took care of it.
That's right.
And he hit him  Go  hit the devil.
Yes sir.
Well I enjoyed talking to you but I- I know I got to down- He got to be at work at uh, a- in a li- My name?
RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-6.
Yes sir.
I enjoyed talking to you.
I wish I had time to stay here .
Let me know, and um, I- I'll be glad to talk to you.
Yes sir.
Somebody need to know.
Know what they called us?
Know what they called us in the Army?
No Tail  Bail.
Yeah, cause we were black, you know.
You look for the tails.
That's- I- Story like that- that was something.
But God knows I didn't care, boy I'd knock a fool out of anybody come up to me, and I .
there he go again a million dollars I know how that gonna be with no ?.
Take care, man.
Yes, sir.