Uh,  I learned a lot from her and my grandmother.
And  when I look back over my life and the flood and everything that I been through to know  I thought that I was fixed  financially.
I thought I was fixed  uh, materially-wised.
I thought I had things  in  perfect  organization when it came to  life.
I think- I thought I had all things with perfection.
And then the flood came.
And I realize  you just can't ever  feel that you have things  completely to your satisfaction.
It doesn't work that way.
And so  I can't look back today  over my life and have any regrets,  not even to the flood because that was not in my control.
But I- I do have a lot of regrets when it comes to  the senior citizens in Princeville  because you have so many seniors that are now in these  perfectly beautifully  new homes and can't really afford the taxes.
And so  believe me, there's not a day  or a night  that I don't think back for the seniors,  which I'm a senior.
But I mean, these people are  already on a fixed income, where I am still out here in the job sector, see?
And I have a better chance at  taking care of my finances than they do.
Although some of 'em may surprise you,  and have a few dollars accumulated somewhere.
But at the same time, you can hear some of them grumbling about the utilities and what have you, the taxes.
And  I just  look back  and I do have some pain when I think about the flood, you know?
It set  so many people back.
But I w- I'm bless because  I have a marvelous husband,  a- a brilliant  b- brain piece when it comes to my husband.
I was hoping he could be here today for you to talk to him, but you can come back always and talk with him.
Uh-  RD-NAME-4.
there was an article featured in the Post.
Okay, I'll have to show it to you.
Uh, where i-  they wrote  from  talking to him.
And, um,  he- he was talking about how low he had been, you know, level with the ground.
And when the flood came you wouldn't believe it, my husband went to into a disability state  with his back.
And we were living in that little travel trailer and I had to handle him in that little trailer.
And he- you know, how it is with you men and your pride.
He didn't want me to call people in to help with him.
So  I basically had to strain over that man, get him in and out of that little trailer  to the doctor, back on the bed, help him to the bathroom.
And I'll tell anybody,  if that flood didn't teach somebody something, I can for certain say it taught me aplenty.
And  I pray and I ask God  whatever may come  but just don't let me go through another flood in my lifetime.
I came back over here- We were uh- Mr.
RD-NAME-1 came,  and then my husband and I came back.
Uh,  I stayed over in the fountain  park  with the people from Princeville from November through January.
And then I realized that it was important to me to come back to Princeville.
So we ask, uh, FEMA, would they bring our little trailer back over here?
And we came back  there were not lights, not anything over here.
You could hold your hand up and not see .
And  he- I wouldn't allow him to leave me for anything over in here.
And one night, I'll never forget it,    uh, I had been to a meeting,  and he thought that he would slip away I guess and talk to some of the people  around over on the Tarboro side before I got back home.
When I got back  and he wasn't there,  I boohooed and I cried just like a baby.
And you gonna laugh at this, I saw this herd of, uh,  beavers.
I had never in my life seen a b-  And they were- they had the street.
I mean- I mean they had the street covered, and they were going across the street, and  oh my God, what are these things?
And they were going right up under the little trailer.
And I couldn't see anything  but  the motion of them,  so  I got scared.
I cranked that car up and I went back over there, and I found some of those people from .
The- the security people that was working?
And that officer said, wh- what happened to you?
Wh-  What's going on with you?
Did anybody bother you?
I says, no, I was crying so hard he couldn't even recognize what I was saying.
And so he took me back to the little trailer.
He says, do you wanna go in?
He said I'll go in first and check it out.
I- So finally I realized I had to stop crying.
I says, but you don't understand.
I'm afraid cause they went up under the trailer.
And so he says, no ma'am, they're not underneath there.
They probably kept on through back to the other side of the woods.
But that was a- that was the most frightening thing, and for the longest time I wouldn't tell my husband.
I kept watching this  white thing crossing the woods.
Cause right- we knew the coffins had came up.
And I was so sure that was a coffin in the woods.
I s-  every time he'd get ready to go out the door I was in front of him.
So, I told him, I says, you know what?
I hate we came back.
He says, RD-NAME-1,  it was your decision not mine.
He says, realize now, you said you want the people to come back home,  and you had to make the first move to show them they had to be strong and come back.
I said, yeah I did, didn't I?
So uh  that was the only encouragement I had for staying in Princeville until  people came back.
But finally they start turning the lights back on and I got a little bit comfortable.
But believe me, it was frightening over here for awhile.
All that slug, all of that stuff over here.
That foul odor.
And  I wouldn't even take a bath in the little  trailer because I didn't know what might come through the line.
I- I mean,  I- my mind was so mixed up.
I was weak enough to think that  frogs, bugs, worms, anything  and he says, RD-NAME-1, you know now.
But he was most patient with me.
He was.
And, uh, as I'm- as I said, he's a very strong person.
But, uh- Okay.
But he really encouraged me a lot.
But like I say- I kn- I know no place but Princeville and there's no place else for me to be.
And  right now, uh, I- I can't lie and say that when it starts raining,  it disturbs me in any way.
Um,  I'm a strong believer, and I just do not believe that God would allow  the s- people of Princeville, his children, to suffer like that again.
That was a- that was a real sad ordeal.
Can you imagine seeing  one of the citizens in your ward  on their knees,  face down in the Earth  under the condition that  this soil was in after the flood  boohooing and crying for their losses?
And all you can do  is pat them.
Words don't even console them.
Then you had to go to the bat and fight and argue to help support them  for why they can't do this  or what's  the best recommendation  if you wanna permit them to do it this way or that way.
And they constantly calling on you for  help.
And you know that you're limited too, but you don't say no.
You just go forth and take some insult for them.
And- and this is what being a commissioner has been like  since the flood  and  they hear little things and they know how I am because I'm a people person.
I'm truly a servant of the people, and  I'm a servant of these people here  because the things that I vote on  effect  me just as much as they effect them.
And so this is the reason that I  above  and aboard  of all things have to be honest about decisions I make.
And I also knew at the time that I voted to come back to Princeville.
These people had no place else to go.
They were just like me.
They were devastated for th- with their losses.
They had no place to go.
Right, they have.
They have.
Well,  I think that it has brought  among the elderly  and  some of the  under seniors,  uh, unity.
Some unity.
Uh,  I believe there is a kind of a love here now  that didn't at one time exist.
And  I- I just  feel that  it cleaned the town for one thing.
It- it really clear- it really  cleaned the town.
But in a sense,  uh,  it was needed.
And I'm sorry that we had to lose so much  to clean the town  but  it was a good experience  for a lot of people.
It- it should've taught a lot of us that,  you know,  we are all  using the same bridge.
Uh,  everybody's baggage  should be about the same.
And me,  I truly believe  internally it has made me a better person.
I know for one thing, I'm stronger.
I'm stronger.
It made me, uh,  more alert  where the community  and, uh,  some  things involving the community  as far as our infrastructure and  the drainage and all of these things are concerned.
Uh, it makes me, uh, go around  on a daily basis and observe things  that I feel I should maybe  focus on and  call to the attention of our town manager.
Just like this water standing right down here now,  uh, I'm concerned  hoping that, uh,  maybe in the near future, we can  iron out that problem.
Uh,  it- it's- it's just made me a better individual  as far as to say  I feel stronger  toward  my position  as a commissioner and showing representation for the people here.
Uh- uh, I tell you what, uh,  if you're just back in general in Princeville,  uh, you wanna stop by RD-WORK-4 apartment, we have a very beautiful community room there.
And you can feel free to just stop,  and maybe we can make the time for you.
Mkay?
And uh, I'm gonna show you this, uh, article from the Post while you're here.