Right down here, yeah.
He was born right down here but he- An- an- Moved up there, and then he s- Yeah, well actually he ain't even working right now, his knee's getting bad right.
He getting ready to go to the hospital to get his knee s-  o- operated on, like that.
Well, the- the more weight-  And the thing is, I think- I think he weigh about four hundred pounds.
Yes.
Yeah he's a biggun alright.
Yeah he is.
Sure is gonna.
My n-  - No- Yeah.
Ne- Yeah, mm-hm.
Uh,  RD-NAME-1.
RD-NAME-1.
Call him RD-NAME-1,  and uh,  well he-  he's uh-  Well his daddy dead now.
But he-  uh- But getting back to Princeville, now I remember when this fire department first got in here.
RD-NAME-2 was here, and he asked me would I join if, uh,  he got one.
And I told him, yeah, and they- And I been in here every since indeed.
I had uh,  different Chief of RD-NAME-4.
He was the Chief, and then after he went out, RD-NAME-3 took it over, and it's after one to the other w- And the trucks, and  off and on like that.
RD-NAME-4 he  was one one time too.
And you got   right now is  Billy boy.
And we still kicking but they got them big nice trucks over there, but- and they always working on somebody trying to get over there  driving or  you know, and uh, little this and that going on.
But I don't do much driving that  ain't nobody here.
And then they had run my rescue squads too, now ?.
And that-  that doubled the weight gain.
Cause on rescue squads you have stuff to do.
I was up there one day, lady told me said one of the  best things that ever happened was the start of .
Cause I've been to a house, and peo- the houses are so bad you couldn't even get the bed in and had to bring 'em out in a chair, and then put 'em on the bed.
Yeah, it's been- it's been tough but  you know?
Coming upstair- little-  this- come up there one day, lady said, look- said, don't y'all drop this thing.
I could understand it.
She laid up there all , she- she  so, we- we- we been making out pretty good for it.
And one of the ladies told me she didn't know what she would do without me cause me being a retired c- run  you know, most around- most  at the time.
See I'm a old man now but  still kicking, you know.
Well, last time I was at the doctor he told me to check him out la-  another year, but everything was fine.
But me and him need to get together cause he said he want me start taking pills, and I asked him, well if I'm fine, why with the pills?
He said I might have a heart attack.
I might start having chest pains.
I said, well that's when I'll start to take 'em.
I got to spend my money to go buy pills- buy- buy more pills to try to straighten me back out.
and already fine.
I couldn't go along with that doc.
Nos.
So I been doing pretty good so far, and that's-  little this and that, and  I can't complain a bit at my age.
I'm seventy nine years old, and- and I- on the average  people I be around a lot of times be talking about  they be hurting somewhere.
Like, and I don't be hurting nowhere.
Cause I come up  way back yard in the days and  cause you supply a pair of mules, about fifty cent a day.
Somebody want a little water, I said I wish I was them.
I told 'em the sun was hours.
From sun up to sun down.
Two dollars a half a week.
And then the-      when you retire,  money's kind of weak on you like in a case like that.
Cause the stuff in these stores now for what these folks making ten, twelve dollar an hour now.
But I been making it okay cause the fire department been giving me a little bit every month, and, uh,  I worked on a job for twenty five and a half years.
RD-WORK-2.
RD-WORK-2.
Twenty five and a half years.
I  there on a little temporary job and end up l- lengths at a time.
And after I left there, this man I had running the  Department back there.
And the- the head mechanic told me if I left or retired, he would need two  full time mechanics  to put back there to run the-  like I run it, and I didn't even have  back there.
I said what  come y'all want me to come back there I reckon.
But I wouldn't go back and mess with this young crowd.
It's a big difference than messing with the older ones.
So I didn't ever go back to that, and I still help-  still run here with the firemans a little bit around every now and then.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, volunteer.
That's right.
Yeah, uh-huh.
Yep, sure it is.
Yeah.
Yeah-  Yeah.
That's right.
Cause I been around Princeville about  uh,  around sixty years.
Yeah, right around that.
I don't exactly how long but it's right in that area.
So I know I was staying in a house over there on Church Street one time.
I was .
Apartment-like house.
Had one apartment  we had it.
And I was paying about four dollars a month, and it went up to eight dollars a month.
And I  moved in to my dad and brother house, that I let in, and I ain't paying no more rent since.
Stay in my own house now, yeah.
Mm.
No.
I was born around here, b-  by about  seven miles from here down by Robison School back down there .
That's back down here, go on out on one eleven.
After you pass that church you make a right on that  the road.
See I don't know the name of it, but it's about a- about a- about a mile and a half up that road, back out in the field in the edge of the woods.
That where I was born.
And I been in this area ever since.
I ain't never been no city man.
I used to go to the city,  stay awhile, a night, and  I'd be come on back.
And that's been about it for the traveling.
And I-  I ain't never been a drinking man.
I  I don't reckon I ever drunk a pint all together in my life.
And I remember drinking one beer and smoking one cigarette.
And uh, that's been about it for that.
So a lot of folks you ask 'em- but it's a lot to do with my health too you know.
So I reckon so.
I thank God for it, I tell you.
Cause so many things happening now.
And that's-  It's just one of them things sometime.
Mm-hm.
Well I take exercise, a little this, a little that, a little work.
Raise- mess and raise the halls right on.
I go to these schools when school run and pick up garbage for my hogs every day.
And get up and-  Well I do a little exercise with every senior citizen too.
But other than that, that's about it just for the exercise.
Cause a lot of people, they get out here and walk, you know,  get their exercise for thirty moments.
See, I used to  walk all day behind a pair of mules so I got it all day.
Yeah.
Sure did.
Yes.
Uh-huh.
On the farm, right.
Yeah.
No, I was little then.
I was small- young man then.
So my daddy raised- I was raised on the farm.
Mm-hm.
My name w- My daddy was RD-NAME-4.
My mama was RD-NAME-4.
Gla- Yeah.
RD-NAME-3 RD-NAME-7, yessir.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah.
Farm on somebody else farm, yeah.
Yeah.
No- Yeah, that's right.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was kind of tough but  that's all we knowed at the time, so we keep going.
Yeah.
Well- well actually you had to do it all then.
You  plow, you  pick cotton, you shake peas and break corn and all that stuff you had to do with your hands then.
Yeah.
Well they was growing  cotton and  peanuts,  corn,  tobacco, and uh, s- soldier bean, and that's all that was- that was- that was- that w- that would take care on your .
Child you got all that house and picked up and all that.
Well actually you had to start then- th- the- uh-  I would say about  eight or nine years old.
You start right then.
That's the earliest you could get out there in the field, start doing stuff.
You was out there cause I have seen- N-  Not my mama, but I seen womens out there in the field  picking cotton with the babies on the cotton sack, drag their- drag a cotton sack.
Now, and they pick cotton.
And I see them have the babies on their cotton sack, drag it around they- and the came a certain distance and they needed- they put 'em out there in the field on  sheet or something or other.
And that wa- that's the way you had to make it along then.
Cause along at that time, see    the only time you get a drink of liquor in, then you go back down in the woods somewhere cause wont those liquor up in  the town then.
And uh,  no wine or nothings.
You have to go down in the woods and get that liquor.
And the man, go down there catch you down there then.
But after awhile, they put up the only man now.
Shoot now they catch you-  if they catch you driving with it, so.
So I don't-  I don't- I ain't into it, but already go along with that.
Cause you gotta put it up here for you to buy it, if you let it stayed in the woods I could look at it a little better.
But after you brought it up here where they could get the money out it, then they- then they won't lock you up if you drink it.
I don't see why they want to do all that that bad cause I know what's it all about too cause like a man said one time, the ones who stay home-  if you  drinking, he's the- he could steal 'em alright til you start drinking.
Then after you start drinking,  he want to get out there and he gonna see somebody then want somebody to see him.
And he fall on out there then.
And just- that's the way it was at that time.
And I'm more than glad I didn't get into it, c- w- At the time, you wont able to get into it no way.
If you could eat then, th- that was it.
Cause a lot of time you wouldn't eat enough then.
No.
Yeah, it was rough back then.
Well actually see you j- just wont no money out there.
See I remember you could  buy a soda for five cent.
Well actually you would buy-  I remember you buy a light bread,  some of 'em were sliced, some of 'em wont slice.
And no matter what you want sliced, you get them for five cents, but  the other one you have to pay ten cent for.
That's a loaf of bread, see.
And now you-  you got to pay a dollar for 'em now, boy.
Yeah, that's- that's the way it was along then you know?
No, uh-uh.
Wont ever a lot of money then.
Cause along then, whatever you just had to pay for it,  that was it.
Cause I remember years and years ago you could buy a brand new Chevrolet for four hundred dollars.
And the- it was a Standard.
The Masters, they were five hundred dollars.
But you go down there at four, five hundred dollars now, you can't hardly make a pay- down payment over there- So just one of them things now.
And anybody have seen much as I've seen feels like it done changed too much.
And lot of these people around here now, you know, these young girls, you get babies, and  they give 'em they food stamps, all that.
And- and I feel like they ought to be giving me a few food stamps too.
Cause at least I worked and made some of the stuff like that, you know, but it's just one of them things.
And paying tithes, I uh,  told a fella one day.
He said,  well all the till farmers don't need to pay tithes cause of what they doing then, these  helping people then.
And I'd agree with that some too, but I still pay some tithes .
Just don't pay it all always but like I said, I feel like I done  paid so much cause I've been a farmer for thirty years.
Yeah.
Uh, see,  I don't even really know now but I know it's been  thirty-  thirty four years, so you could  sh- go back on from there.
Mm-hm.
Yes, something like- something in that area.
Yeah, uh-huh.
I was at RD-WORK-2 then yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah I think so.
But I still pay 'em right on when I go to church.
I'm a member of Macedonia church around there.
And I  sticks with them pretty close and j- enjoy 'em and it's just a little this and that, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
Well,  I try to serve 'em, but most of the time, uh,  but me messing with the hogs now and they want to have a dinner or something if they want a barbecue, I get 'em- fix the barbecue and straight for 'em and stuff like that.
Cause I talking to one of the old farmers, Davie, he was talking about, he was up there  maybe about a month ago and he was talking about how good that barbecue was, so.
Yeah.
Well see, it ain't- I don't  that fast like some people would.
Ain't got them big hog pile see.
They breed 'em too fast I think.
And I'm slow raising one- I think it j- I do think they're a little bit better.
And I- I ain't got many right now.
I got about- I would say  only  about fifteen heads now.
But you gotta have  twenty five or thirty heads in that area most of the time.
But now things got kind of slack on me right now, and it ain't got many now but I mean-  I'm figuring on getting some more- I done talked to a guy about some more weight.
He got a right  up out there and he got some more coming along.
So he said I could get some of them he got down there, a few of 'em, cause I been nice to him, helping feed and all.
So- Well I keep 'em in  that's about  five,  about seven miles from where I live.
And after gas gone up now, I wished I did- I wish I would have- could have 'em close cause I used to- used to have you know, th- th- down to Ed backyard out there, places like that but now the town want 'em a mile out of the city limit.
And I had to- g- as you- and  something like that.
Everybody be eating meat if you  go get in the right place where I put 'em now, talking about  sister's house down there cause   in the area down there.
Very close down there.
And that's been about it I reckon.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, my daddy used to do that.
And I  since I got up but That's something you like to do you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A long time, til I got grown, got married, and I moved up here, and- Mm, moved up Princeville.
And I b- got me a house, and after he got too old he come stay with me.
Til he died and- and after he died, I still  in my house and all.
When the water come up to the wash-  went up to the top of the windows but I got it fixed all the way up like a brand new house.
Unintelligible it's a old house, but I dropped the ceil- ceiling down and put central heat and all of that down there.
Yeah, so  it's good but when the man went in there and looked at it,  see the house was a hundred years old about  three years ago.
Three or four years ago.
In the era-  and th- the way in there, them floors  along that time, they cut l- timber certain time of the year.
And leave it in there unless we gonna throw them floor- that floor well that's like that.
And the man told me he wouldn't even had put that floor in this house.
And uh, but I telled him, put a floor on top of that one anyway and drop my ceiling down some and put the central heat in there and it's- it's nice in there now.
Yeah.
Cause used to you had to go out there in the woods cut wood to keep it hot in .
Yeah.
Yeah, right, a word burning stove is all.
But now that central heat is real nice.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, it was old house.
About it- it was about-  I would think right now it's something like,  a hundred years  and about four-  about a hundred and four years old, it's in that area now.
Mm-hm.
No, uh, I was stay on Church- I stay on, uh,  acro-  right across uh,  sixty four now.
On the uh-  Well the address is-  is RD-ADDRESS-6 now.
But it's right in the edge of the town, so they ain't been long to change the address on it.
Mm-hm.
M- Yeah, -  the- you pass the light back here, go back to the light, go out there, that first curve, and make a sharp right across the railroad track.
I stay in that house right back over there.
Mm-hm.
You go up to the stop light and make a left, and go down to that curve around there and make a sharp right across the railroad track.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
That long ten beeler there, you remember seeing that long ten beeler there?
You go down there by that curl long ten beeler there.
Th- No- up- the next block up from there.
Well yes, up-a little further s- on the other side of the store.
Up there, get up that curve right up there.
And that's the- that's where- make a right across the railroad track, that's where that is at.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's where I'm at.
Right there.
Been there for years.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Fixed it all up good.
People come down here to work, and then the ladies-  two white ladies went in there, they-  one Friday.
They paint that house that I thought- thought was already painted.
But they painted all over one Friday, they , and it looks some kind of good.
And they been- They were from Virginia.
And the one guy, he s-  he read  eight hours one day  to get to Virginia  to come down here and get them folks to work  for my house.
And uh, they- sh- that show- show you about how far you were from home cause  for 'em to take you I reckon you're about  five or six hours get from Virginia into Virginia that way.
And uh,  he said, well you know you're a long way but they done a job, and the main man, I got his whole family picture to my house right over- Cause he-  he c- sent me a picture last-  last Christmas I think it was down here.
And every time he come down there, he come there and check around,  sit around and talk once awhile.
And uh,  and he was uh, did you come down here  and got everything set up,  and I cooked a barbecue.
All them-