Cooking out.
Cooking out.
Cooking on the grill.
Okay.
Is he?
He- um,  in Princeville, we were pretty much  a close knit family because my mom was a single parent, so it was seven of us that she was raising on her own, so we were kind of separated from the community cause my s- my mom was like strict.
So we didn't get into a lot things.
We wasn't into a lot of activities because my mama worked and we had to stay home.
And stay in the house until she returned from work.
So by the time she got off work, there was about a hour or so before it got dark and we had to be back in the house so I found that in Princeville I can say  we became close because  we was like set apart from other families.
And my mom was stern and strict and  we didn't have to worry about kids all over the house and stuff because she- she didn't have- she didn't allow that, so.
Thats why we are close- My family and I, we are very close knitted.
Cause we only had each other.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-1 is  a really nice person.
Um,  in the community, when he had a ch- chance, he was- he raked yards, a lot of older people yards.
And  try to keep up with me everywhere I went.
So we was the kind of youngest ones so  all the older kids  was kind of jealous of us because we w- were the last two and we was close, and my mom-  think it was getting better  for my mom when we was coming along, so.
Um, the older kids used to fight us and stuff so we had to stick together and fight  together.
But uh, I can say that Princeville was a-  was a start, and-  But my mom always told us to si- stick together, and you know, be concerned about one another.
So we did that, so that's- that's far as I remember about Princeville.
I was tomboyish because I wanted to do everything he- he  done.
So I played basketball and played marbles and stuff just  because he was  my friend because we knew  um,  what time they leave- When he left, then I had to leave with him.
We stuck together, so  that as good.
I don't remember any.
No.
Because   we remember like Sunday School,  Vacational Bible Study.
That's the only place we was allowed to go  because my mama worked all the time, and we-  we- uh, the older kids were responsible for us, so we really could not go anywhere.
Like I- As I said before, my mama was very strict on us, and the people in the street thought my mom was mean, but today we appreciate it because none of us  to God be the Glory th- not on drugs or never-  My mom had seven kids, never been in jail, so we count that a blessing.
So.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yeah.
But she knew how to put him back in line.
I have a story for you.
When he was  younger,  he stole my mom car.
We were beginning to worry.
It was-  It started working.
And he stole my mom car, and I always would take up for him.
He hit a-  a parked eighteen wheeler.
So  he had um, my older brother to put it in the shop, So he told my mama, I put it in the shop to get it serviced.
So I had to end up paying for a car that I a-.
So my mom said, thanks for putting my car in the shop.
Something he had done.
Bad.
I got in trouble because I was the youngest.
So I got a- l- away with a lot of things, so  my main-  main thing was staying out.
My mom said  as we got older we could  come in at twelve o'clock.
I don't wanna come in  at twelve.
So I come in at one, and  I would always go to his window so he could open the door for me, and  my mama would whoop him because  he opened the door for me.
She wanted me to come through the front door.
So I would go to the back door so she wouldn't know what time I got in.
So he kind of kept me out of trouble a lot.
We- Just like it.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Okay my oldest brother is named RD-NAME-4.
The next one is name RD-NAME-1- My sister- older sister is RD-NAME-4.
Then I have a sister named RD-NAME-4.
I have a sister named RD-NAME-4.
I have another brother named RD-NAME-2.
And then it's RD-NAME-3  and  RD-NAME-3.
So it's seven of us.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-4, I think.
Okay.
Um, I wanna know if there-  there are anything in life that you would change,  what would you change about your childhood?
Hm?
What's that- Stay here and wait.
He coming.
He coming.
He crazy.
Well my whole family is because like I said we had-  My mom,  we kind of had to stick together.
And I think that our family was a bit- family was set aside and  people thought that my mom didn't want us to-  to  play with other kids and stuff, so we would labor in-  in our community, that we thought we was better than everybody and- And we come to the street, we'll be beat up, you know, and stuff like that.
So we went through a whole lot of stuff.
But  um,  I just thank God because  um, a lot of things that was out there,  my mama just was determined that she wont gonna let us get involved, so.
And we thought she was mean and, my sister and I and my brother had planned to kill her.
So  you know, now- now- Yeah, as we got older, we appreciated it, so.
Mm-hm.
My mother used to work- she um, worked  in um-    at housekeeping, and she raised a- a tur- um- uh- young man name um,  RD-NAME-4 was a- which is an attorney right now.
So the family that she worked for pretty much took care of us, you know?
And I remember  um, by mom having so many kids, and my dad was around,  but he didn't stay with us.
And he done a wonderful job with us too, but he just didn't stay with my mom.
We never wanted for anything.
Um, we use what we had,  I'll say that.
And  um, one year,  um,  RD-NAME-2 that owned a construction company in Tarboro um, which was one of the best part of our life.
Um,  he came, and  he  nominated my mom to be  the family that he will take care of for that particular season.
And he brought us a lot of stuff, and- and you know, I never forgotten it.
Even  over-  after the years passed as I got older, I went back to thank him for it.
S- You know, as a child, you remember little stuff like that.
Um,  only thing I know is RD-NAME-2.
I forgot his-  his real name, but he own RD-NAME-2 Construction Company.
Mm-hm, in here and Tarboro.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
I kind of drew strength  from the town of Princeville because  we was to me, a town that had been forgotten.
And I didn't wanna stay there.
You know, I didn't wanna stay there at all.
You know I was a  type of kid that just sit around and-  and dreamed a lot.
So it was like,  when I got  to a certain age, I wanted to work and take care of my family.
And that's what I done.
You know, um, when I graduated from high school, I went to RD-SCHOOL-7, and received um,  a degree in cosmetologist,  and as I began to work and God began to bless my bus-  business- I was working  at um-  for RD-WORK-3?
Over in town in Princeville.
And so then I kind of  moved my family up.
Um, got my mother another house, a new car, and then I start to helping my sisters and my brother have some values and stuff, so.
It's what it been like.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
So that was- that was kind of the turning point  for the family.
You know, we had a lot of dreams and stuff, but not the money and stuff.
You know,  um,  and that's what I often tell the kids and stuff,  some people are victim of circumstances, and  some people decide and stay,  but it's whatever your mindset is.
Yeah.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
And as I began to work I- Every summer, I would-  like um,  charter a bus and take the kids to-  You know, the kids in the communipy- community because I want them to see  not only bad part of life.
You know, so that was my- that was-  that was my heart to  let them see something different, you know?
But kids and stuff, we was labor in school because we stayed in Princeville.
We were treated different.
You know, and sometime only thing it takes  is a encouragement.
You can make it.
But they kind of pushed u- us aside because we stayed in the area  that wasn't  uh, what they thought it should be.
I'll say that, so.
You was labeled.
Mm-hm.
Yeah it made thing harder but I was always- was a  um, had a  strong mindset that I was gonna make it one day, you know?
So um,  and even now, in  you know um,  how God had blessed my business and everything, I always go back  um,  I remember  going back and getting a little boy that was-  his mom and stuff was on drugs and stuff and I raised him  for about thirteen years until he got older, and that's what I like.
That's- That's my life.
You know, reaching back  um,  into the community and doing little things and stuff.
Even now,  Princeville is a little better, but if you don't have the mindset, you don't have the motivation-  And kids and stuff don't have the motivation for-  for-  from their parents,  they really don't even get it from the teachers because they label us.
And it's been like that, and it still is like that,  you know, so.
Mm-hm.
We look out for each other.
Mm-hm.
I had a teacher.
Um,  name wa- was RD-NAME-3  um,  that kind of motivated me  and kind of  um, something would say stuff that she really didn't know  that impacted my life.
And I kept those thoughts in my mind, and I prayed a lot because my grandmother  w- was always told us, you know, to  think more of ourselves and stuff, and it kind of stuck with me.
But um,  the most influence-  person that influenced me more in my life  I think was my pastor.
Mm-hm.
RD-CHURCH-4- RD-CHURCH-5 in Macclesfield, North Carolina.
Mm-hm.
Well um,  at a young- When I was in school,  I was dating RD-NAME-2, and RD-NAME-2 dad is a minister.
So when I dated RD-NAME-2,  then I got  to go to  church with him and his mom and his dad, and that's when I really found hope-  hope and stuff, so.
Well my mom had always taken us to Sunday school and church, but I-  I was  um, kind of,    um,  Didn't really wanna go to Sunday school because people would look at us different because we didn't dress  like other people dressed.
Or- And my mom always  was- We would like switch clothes around, but they- we were always clean, so my mom says, it's not what you have-  And then  young- When I was younger I had a attitude, but it was a attitude  that not really people- letting people know the hurt and stuff that they would say or do to me.
So it was until I got of- of age, did I-  I  begin to motivate myself and feel good about myself.
Mm-hm.
Church was a real big part of it cause that's where I found  who I was you know, in church and stuff, so I'll say that.
I say about  eighteen.
About eighteen.
Mm-hm.
Okay, um, I was in church one Sunday,  and I went with his RD-NAME-2 and his father to church, and  I just liked the-  He would al-  always talk about renewing your mind and-  and your mind plays a big part of how you feel and how you feel about yourself, and  he begin to say that whatever you ask God, He'll give it to you.
So  I began to exercise that.
You know, I began to pray, and I began to- and the- and then it was at one point,  I really didn't know who I was, and I would say, God, you know, all this hurt and pain,  and this attitude,  I knew it come from the resentment I had from other peo-  for other people.
So I asked God to kind of give me some love and- and I wanna treat people better because this is not- really wasn't me.
So um,  and I was drawn to people  that- who I was.
You know, you give off-  you get what you give off.
So I began to  feel good about myself and  feel-  Or you know, feel good about other people th-  people and I-  I just-  Life start to falling in place for me.
Mm-hm.
It's uh- it's the foundation of my life.
It means the whole world- I could not even live without it because there-  that's when God- That's  a point of my life when God made me whole and complete.
Mm-hm.
Everything.
I seek Him for anything.
You know, sometime you can't  talk to your friends, and sometime  some things you  don't wanna tell people how you feeling,  and you can go to God and ask God for strength and ask God for directions and stuff,  and He just been my everything.
And I- And I began to  uh, depend on Him wholeheartedly, so.
Mm-hm.
For the kids, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
In raising  my kids, m-  a lot of my sisters and brother  are not in church, and  I al- I always wanted to be the one that    um,  made a difference in their lives.
So I knew in order to make a difference in their life,  I had to live a certain kind of way.
I couldn't  conduct myself in a bad manner  and witness to them at the same time.
So it was like,  um,  I would pray to God and ask God to bless 'em and-  and- and um, let them be saved, and God told me to walk more clearly  before them.
I place you here in this family  to walk more clearly, and so I was the one that always obeyed-  You know, they would come to be about anything.
You can make it, you know.
Pray about it first, and ask God, you know.
Stop  looking for other avenues  to seek peace in, because  everybody  that  think- that you think of-  for you, is not for you, so  that- that plays a  big part.
Because like I say, sometime you can't  tell people how you really feeling.
And- and- and I- I wanted to be a light, so I couldn't  be sad and  dump my burdens on them, and they was going through something, too, so.
God kind of lightened my load, so I was a-  kind of, the one that lightened their loads.
Mm-hm.
Cause my nieces and nephews, I- I wanted them to be raised like we was raised.
W- I'm firm with my daughter, and  it's- it's a certain thing that she know I'm not gonna  put up with  with her friends, certain friends and stuff she had.
So,  then you have to train 'em up.
Where if you want something,  you can't hang with anybody that want anything.
You can't  stay out all night and  sing.
Cause we have a gospel group and-  and I let them know that  people are watching your lifestyle, and y- if you  respect, for then you earn respect.
So all of my nieces and nephew, we are very close.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
I'm very proud of 'em.
And we have to motivate our kids and stuff.
And so you hear so much-  See we grew up in negatism.
Everything  um-  When I  first got my salon, I was about  twenty.
And I said, ma, I said, I wanna  open up my- I was working with this lady, and I was giving her forty percent of everything that I made.
So it was like I was giving her  like,  six or seven hundred dollars a week.
And I said, well Ma I wanna open my own business,  and she said, well baby,  it's hard out here and you would never make it.
And that kind of hurt me,  so I wanted prove to her  that I could make it.
So I just-  When I opened my salon, my first salon,  no one knew about it.
I just stepped right out on faith, and God began to bless it, so I stayed at  over in this salon about fifteen years.
Mm-hm.
I was about twenty- About twenty years old.
Mm-hm.
My own salon.
Uh-uh.
I opened- I- I got a business  right  um,  in downtown Prince- right  in the heart of Princeville.
Bridger's Store is.
I s- the- the store-  the uh, building he b- had behind there h- stayed there for fifteen years.
Mm-hm.
Yes, and I never uh, entertained a lot of gospel-  gossip and stuff.
I always wanted to be the one that set apart because I knew if I wanted to  own a business in Princeville, I couldn't be- have friends and  I couldn't hang out.
My mindset was to one day own my business, cause I knew  if I stayed in the street-  I had never been a person to drink, smoke nor like.
Cause I always been  strong-willed, and I always wanted to do something.
I said, I don't want my family to stay here.
So I feel it in my heart that God had chosen me to move my family  in the realm that he wanted them to be in, so.
I knew I had to  do the right thing and- and  He's been blessing me.
For twenty four years, I've been self employed for twenty four years.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2 w- was a um- I say my foundation because when I went to him I told him what I wanted to do,  and he said, if you serious about this situation,  then  we could come w- to agreement.
So he kind of set  my rent so I could afford it.
Him and his wife gave me a chance.
And I went back about  two years ago  and presented them a plaque of thank you cause they gave me my first start.
Mm-hm.
W- He's-  he's a person that would help you but  in Princeville, he had a bad name because  when people are not where they supposed to be, then they label you.
You know what I'm saying?
I'm saying he was a type of person  in Princeville that they labeled because he had his own little shop there.
And said, well he- he's nothing but a Jew.
He stole the money.
That's because that's not where they supposed to be.
So you begin to think things in your heart.
When you don't really know  a person's business, then, you begin to  assume- well how did he get this point?
To this point, so.
Yeah.
So I didn't- I didn't listen- I didn't even ask any- I never ask anybody opinion when I'm getting ready to do something.
Cause by the time you get all these opinion,  you'd be  more messed up than you was from the beginning, right?
So.
Yeah.
My business is doing wonderful.
Yeah God is blessing that we'll open- I'll be opening up another salon within two weeks  with four opera- four more operators.
Mm-hm.
Five, got five operators here.
G-  I-  In on-  In nineteen eighty eight, I had two salons, and I was dealing wi- with about  thirteen operators.
And I was kind of burnt out between the two salons so I closed one and moved to a larger salon.
In eighty eight- Lord, let me see.
I was about- I know I was about twenty- probably about twenty five or twenty six, something like that.
Mm-hm, two salon.
Mm-hm.
I had two salons.
Mm-hm.
It was a little too much.
Yeah, I had to slow down because I had kind of left my foundation of- of trust in God and-  and I had start believing in myself and-  and  that's already-  is a defeat, so I say that, so.
Mm-hm.
No the one store I moved  up there,  downtown  behind Popeyes.
It's right on that corner, had a salon right there with about seven operators.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well, here,  I'm the owner here, but  um,  my co-workers,  um- We work together real good.
I thank God for that.
I have a coworker that does braids.
Um, she specialize in braids.
I have a coworker that does nails.
She does pedicures.
She do- does hair.
But-  call me later.
Um, and I mainly just do-  I like older clients.
I do most of the older clients.
I like- I don't like the young gener- I don't like the young  um,  clients here.
Mm-mm.
The older clients are  uh, it's more stability in the older client.
The younger clientele,  they do a lot of shop hopping, what we call shop hoppers.
So I pretty much like to know  um, about how much money I'm gonna make, and- and- and I don't have to worry about I'll pay you half now, and a little later.
Most of my clienteles are- are um,  professional people, I say.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
So.
Every day.
Mm-hm.
No, I really like  um,  the hairdressers that already have-  I don't recruit  um,  the kids from school.
I taught at RD-SCHOOL-3 for about two years.
Mm-hm.
My um-  When I graduated from RD-SCHOOL-3,  my  um, teacher and I got along very well, and I was one of the top students in her class.
And um,  she got sick with cancer.
Her name was RD-NAME-5,    and they asked me to come  when- during the time when she was taking treatments and stuff.
And um,  to help them out.
So I did for about two years, and they wanted me to come out of my salon- I still had a salon operating, but it w-  They didn't wanna pay me the salary that I was making in my salon, and I didn't want-  I didn't wanna do that.