Mm-hm.
Yes, I consent  to the recording.
Just don't ever let me hear it because I hate the way my voice sound recorded.
There we go.
Alright.
Okay, perfect.
Yes.
Yup.
Okay, when I was really small,  from what I'm told,  we lived  in the RD-ADDRESS-2 area, RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue,  RD-ADDRESS-2 area, and then once we got older, my mother didn't want us in the city schools, so we moved out to RD-ADDRESS-4 area.
I do.
I, um, was in  seventh grade at RD-SCHOOL-4, and I got like  pulled out like, y- you done.
So we-  yeah, she took me out, and I started at  RD-SCHOOL-9.
And me, my sister and brother, we were the only black kids in the whole school.
Yeah.
It was like a culture shock kind of to be around all of these kids who, they grew up together, they've been together since kindergarten.
And here, we're out like  a fly in a bowl of milk  out of nowhere.
And I think it was like, right before-  it was like in  late October, November, so school had kind of just started.
The kids were okay for the most part, but it was just so different because  the neighborhood that we lived in was all  up and coming black families who moved out there, but then  we didn't get to go to public school.
We were at  this all white  Catholic school.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
I got in for my grades.
I didn't have a talent, yeah.
That's when you could go there from just having  good grades, and you had to have so many teachers recommend you.
And my si- fifth grade teacher recommended me.
It was me and  one other person from RD-SCHOOL-4, cause that's what elementary I went to, that went to RD-SCHOOL-4.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Oh okay, we lived- it's, um, off of RD-ADDRESS-2, if you keep going down,  it's  RD-ADDRESS-2 off- it's RD-ADDRESS-1, you go down RD-ADDRESS-2 and it's RD-ADDRESS-2, and it was a bunch of  families, they either worked at Xerox or Kodak.
That's b-  I don't care.
Where you at?
Kodak, Kodak, Xerox.
Kodak, Kodak, Ko- everybody was at Kodak or Xerox.
And all of the families were black or m- minorities, but it w-  it was one Puerto Rican family, but everybody else was black.
Mm-hm.
No, my mother- that was my aunt's house.
My mother loved  this neighborhood.
She lived in Greece for a few years, but  something brought her right back.
She's always lived off of RD-ADDRESS-2.
She just recently moved on RD-ADDRESS-2.
She moved Saturday on RD-ADDRESS-1,  and that's completely out of her comfort zone.
She loves the  area.
I don't think she love the area.
It's her comfort zone.
She acts like anything else is just faux pas, like, no I can't do it.
Mm-hm.
Oh no, most of them are retired or have moved out of Rochester.
Mm-hm, cause I know a few of 'em, like it's some in Vegas, some in  North Carolina,  and then  a few,  I would say my-  my boyfriend's father still lives out there cause that's where we know each other from.
Besides his dad, it's probably like three or four families that's still left.
But it's now predominantly white.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
No, mm-mm.
No.
Mm-hm.
Before everything went  awry.
Yeah.
It was a hard one, yeah.
Yes it did, they have so many empty buildings  in the city like, you be like, oh, mm-hm  hi Kodak.
Mm-hm.
I gradua- We lived out there until I was in my freshman year of college, and then my uncle bought a bigger house,  in  Greece, on RD-ADDRESS-2 Drive, right- it's like behind the mall kind of, that little street you can go down to cheat  the traffic.
And, um,  yeah, I  was predominantly in RD-ADDRESS-2, cause I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 College.
I had an apartment out there.
I lived out there, but I would come home s- way too much, probably    more than I should've.
But  they stayed out there  in Greece.
My brother st-  went to Greece schools cause he was the last one.
When my sister graduated, she went to  RD-SCHOOL-2 and stayed in Buffalo for ten years before she came back here.
I was in RD-ADDRESS-2 for years until I  got pregnant, and then I moved back to the city because I needed help.
Mm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I only went to RD-SCHOOL-5.
Like I went from RD-SCHOOL-4 to RD-SCHOOL-2.
RD-SCHOOL-2, my uncle gave me the choice.
He was like, you wanna go to RD-SCHOOL-3  or you want to go to RD-SCHOOL-3?
And I had gotten sick of the r-  strict regimen  at the Catholic school, so I was like,  I wanna go to RD-SCHOOL-3, and I stayed there for my four years.
Mm-hm.
Comple- Um, I mean,  there were more  minorities, but it was still predominantly white cause it's-  it's RD-SCHOOL-3.
Like it was predominantly white,  but  all of the minorities that lived-  that went to that school lived out there because it  was no urban suburban program.
So everybody lived out there.
It was a group of boys that were  like inner city, all adopted.
This woman had a group home out there, okay.
She had a group home out there, so they would-  it was like a  rotation of, um,  inner c-  inner city youth, black youth,  from this one black woman who lived out there who  did foster care.
Mm-hm.
High school, like the one I like to tell  people, like they was like, oh how was it at RD-SCHOOL-3?
I was like, it was like a movie, like  something out of a movie.
Like you see, cause most of those families are well-to-do,  and everybody- like, I got along with everybody because I-  I'm my own person.
I-  did all the-  I did sports, I did cheerleading, I did- I started a step  team out there  with one of my moth- it was my aunt's friend's niece.
She was a sororit- she was in, I wanna say AKA.
So she helped us.
She started the-  a step team, I did  Student Union, I worked at the book store.
Like I had a nice high school experience.
I got good grades,  I was a black scholar still.
Like, it was a nice time.
It was a good school.
And it was minority teachers  which I was shocked.
The- one of the principals was black.
Mm-hm.
And I was  surprised  for the area, but it was enough minority teachers where you would  be able to sit in a class and see somebody that looked like you.
Now we-  when I left, I only kept in contact with one person and me and her are very  close to this day.
But, um, we would go around family and whatnot, but not  too often because I rem- my mom didn't want us in that element, and she i-  was v- very young when she had us,  and she wanted  us to have better chances than she did, so we lived with my aunt and uncle.
My uncle was strict.
He didn't play that.
He didn't want that.
He wasn't with any of the  like, rap, no.
You ain't listening to rap in here.
Um, certain TV shows we couldn't watch.
We couldn't watch TV during the week.
Well Friday, Saturday, yes.
Sunday through Thursday, not at all.
Like he  was about education.
Every week,  because he knew I liked to write,  oh I'm gonna hone that skill, you gotta do a current event every week.
Like,  who?
Even in the summer, like reading lists, writing this.
He was on top of  education, and then when we were with m-  our mother and around our family,  we were the white ones.
We were the white kids who talk white and  all that good stuff, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
The one thing-  yeah- yeah, I notice like they expected you to be so street and so hood, and I'm like w- what the hell you talking about.
I don't-  I don't live that life.
And then like, because I did so many activities, they would come over our house and be like, oh my god this house is so nice.
Like what, you thought I was living in squalor?
And my uncle, he was a- um, he loved sports cars, so he would pick us up in a Miata or a Porsche or this because he had so many.
And they would be shocked because a lot of  white  kids weren't used to seeing black people with money or black people that had a little bit of  anything.
And like we would have sleepovers and stuff and they're like, oh my god  your house is so nice.
And, your hair is so long.
How did you get your hair like that?
Like, that type of stuff, yeah.
And I've never really experienced  racism being with  so many kids.
I remember in  eighth grade, a kid made a joke at the  private school.
He made a very tasteless joke, and he got kicked out the school  because that principal wasn't for it.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, and I guess he had a history of doing it.
I didn't know because I was newer to the school, but  he got kicked out.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, I associate with a lot of people from high school, but  it's rare because so many people have  dr-  drifted apart, and they're so different, and people who you thought like, oh she's gonna be so successful, but  they're like  not  successful,  or  not living the type of lifestyle that I'm around, be it drinking all the time or drugs, and  some of 'em have moved away.
And  it's just-  I would run in to 'em regularly because most of them are still in Rochester but  nobody that I hang with now.
No.
I did not pick RD-SCHOOL-2.
I'm sorry.
I did not.
I picked a b-  s-  ton of HBCUs that I did not get into,  and I was shocked.
Mm-hm.
Spelman, number one, did not get into- I picked schools in the South because I wante- I had just went to a  high school with  predominantly white kids.
I wanted the-  be around  black  people, black minori- like  people learning and  bettering themselves.
I was-  I did track.
I did everything.
I graduated with like a three point nine GPA.
I did not get into Spelman.
They said I didn't get in because I didn't have enough curricular activities,  extracurricular activities.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yup, I didn't get into Howard either.
And Howard is like- Mm-hm.
Sorry to- And then it was something like  my first application for RD-SCHOOL-2, they were like, oh,  um, because even though we didn't live with my mother, she still like did the taxes and stuff for us because she had to.
And, um, she was a nurse, a CNA, but she worked two full-time jobs.
So they were like, oh you don't qualify for EOP.
I'm like, who the hell selected EOP on my application.
So that was  RD-SCHOOL-2.
So I had to wait til the next semester, so my first  freshman  year, first semester, I was at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Easy as hell, like I had high school classes that I thought was harder than those classes.
I had straight A's pretty much.
When I got there, it was a- I saw a lot of people that I went to high school with who probably didn't get into college of their choices also, so they were there.
I didn't really-  I associated with a few people because, you know, like, people assume like, you black, so you come talk  with the black people.
But it was different, like they were doing stuff that I wasn't  used to like,  um, what- what- what club is that?
I don't know about that, like I don't go out yet.
Like I wasn't into that, so it was a few people that I talked to, but I couldn't tell you their names right now.
I wouldn't even know.
I probably wouldn't recognize 'em on the street.
It's sad.
I wouldn't.
I wouldn't.
Yeah, and then I went there for a semester and redid my  RD-SCHOOL-2 application, and then I moved in  in January to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I liked RD-SCHOOL-2.
It was a nice school, and it was-  it was a mix, like it was-  it's a-  I thought it was a mix.
It was just as many black kids as it was white kids.
The professors were cool.
The campus was big.
It was cold as heck,  but  the campus was  big.
It was an adjustment for me  to know like, even though you not at home, you gotta still do your work, you gotta still do stuff.
It was a bit of an adjustment.
And then I really didn't like my roommate,  uh, cause she was annoying.
She was like a theater major.
Oh I still talk to her though.
We still converse.
Yeah, she's pursuing her acting.
She lives in New York City, yeah.
Cause she was from the city, so she live- she moved back when she finished, and  I don't- wait, I don't think she finished.
No, it was just like, you know how some people go to school and they like find themselves and turn into a whole nother person, like, and I was like, who is this girl?
Because I wasn't with them the first semester freshman year,  so I'm coming in new to a lot of these people  and, they're just like whispering in my ear about her.
I'm like, well that's- I don't got nothing to do with that.
And then because  she introduced herself to me as a lesbian,  and I'm like, oh okay, that's your business.
And then   oh I guess she done slept with everybody   the first semester so she gay now.
And I'm like,  well,  that's y'all,  and I just-  it was just a- oh no.
The company that she kept, like,  She would have people in and out of the room all the time.
And I'm a private person, so I don't like stuff- Not private, but  if I come in and you sitting on my bed  with your outside clothes, we got a problem.
Like don't cross this threshold.
M- yeah.
Mm-hm.
But  other than that, like  it was nice.
I was, um, an English major and a African American literature minor,  and I learned a lot  from a few of those African professors.
They ain't no joke.
No joke.
Um, I'll never forget this one professor.
His name was- he recently passed away in the winter, Dr.
RD-NAME-5, like  he will open your eyes, talking about  education and just  history, black history,  not just black American history.
Like he is- he was a very smart man, and he was good.
I took every class that he offered.
And I got a A in every class that he offered  because his  policy is like you- I'm not giving you multiple choice answers, like he'll give you a topic,  and you gotta come up with this essay.
That's your test, like  no you can't leave.
You gotta sit right here.
No it's not open book.
You gonna sit right here and write this essay.
But it was a nice class.
Mm-hm.
Um, one of my- I would say when my  uncle, like my uncle came out  ever- Even though  like  I was at RD-SCHOOL-2, we lived  RD-ADDRESS-4 border,  he came out once a week for lunch and, let me walk around the campus with you, let me hang with you, chill with you.
And what else?
Well having my little brother able to come and see people like,  oh it's people out here, people in college.
I brought him to a couple of games.
Just tryna l- show him because  like, in our family, my sister  is the first person I can remember that graduated from college, and she's only two years older than me.
And then, um,  just the experience of being around  other people, be it black, white, whatever, who take their education seriously because a lot of people  don't.
And, uh,    it was just an experience of being  adult-like, away from home, like you gotta  figure this out for yourself.
Like when it came to what, financial aid that you gotta do for school, I'm like, what's that?
Uh, what?
I don't know, I'm not doing that.
And then it was a guy.
He's still there, and I actually work with his mom now.
His name is RD-NAME-2.
And he's an admissions counselor at RD-SCHOOL-2 now.
And he helped me a lot.
He helped a lot of the black students because it was like  at RD-SCHOOL-2- at a lot of these schools I'm seeing, because my godsister's going through the same thing,  okay,  if you're a black student or a minority student, they assume you're EOP.
So if you're not EOP, it's like, you figure it out by yourself.
But he was there to help and get   us like, oh no you gotta do this like this, and this paperwork.
But  the oth- the EOP advisors could care less.
Care less.
Yeah  Mm-hm.
Mm-hm, you wouldn't have got it.
You wouldn't have got it anyway.
Clicky.
Because they get there, what, like four weeks before everybody else, so they have  all the- they take 'em  to Darien Lake and trips like that, so you have somebody there that you know.
But it's like, what if you're not in  EOP?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I had no idea what EOP was until-  like they would all be leaving like, cause you know you- I started hanging around  a lot of the black girls or whatever, and they be like, oh we gotta go and meet with Mr.-  with RD-NAME-2.
It was this black man  who headed the program.
I was like, what?
Oh you coming?
I said, I don't know who that is.
Like,  I have no idea who that is, so they would go.
And they was like, you're not in EOP?
I was like, what's that?
And they told me.
I said, oh nah.
And then again, to like stereotypes, when they came to my house, a lot of them were from the city, like Brooklyn and stuff.
They thought we lived in a castle, but it was a  starter home.
It was a three bedroom,  one and a half bath starter home.
But they were like, oh that's why you don't get EOP.
I'm like,  I'm broke B.
Like, what do you want?
Yeah, it was-  you learn stuff.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
They assume that you're in it.
But I think it's a good program.
Like, most of the kids that were in it did graduate on time.
They finished.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Or almost none, right?
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah, and it steady crawling up.
That's crazy.
I wish.
I just, in March, paid off all my loans.
I just signed for another one.
Yeah, like I just  signed for another one.
But it was, um,  a learn- like you learn more signing up for school and maintaining  your financial services than you do in school, like you-  depending on your major.
But it was-  it was a trip.
Mm-hm.
I went in as a journalist major, but it was a professor who I could not stand, and most of the classes I would have had to take with her.
So my academic advisor told me that you could still be a English major and work-  he said you can do more with a English degree  than you can a journalism degree.
He was like, with English you can teach y- and you do c- can do journalism and write.
I wanted to be a writer.
I have a few things that  have been published.
I gotta find 'em.
I- I have 'em.
They're in one of these briefcases, but I never pursued it because once I started doing the  student teaching and stuff, it turned me off.
And then  once you-  like, say,  English is my major, I have to  pick American lit or British lit or Old English, like it was annoying.
I'm like-  But  yeah.
Mm-hm.
I worked for RD-WORK-8.
Mm-hm.
Yup, and I was there for eight years.
Working in a group home with people with disabilities.
Mm-hm.
Yup because   I didn't finish all my  necessary steps to actually teach.
And it was nothing you can besides subs- subbing with a  English degree, like you can sub, and it's okay, but you don't get to plant your feet.
And then I got a county job  as a- um, working with, um,  kids who-  alternative high school,  doing that.
And that was okay,  but because I was so young, those kids are my age because they're getting E- um, IEPs.
They can be what, twenty-one or twenty-two?
And I'm  twenty-f- three, twenty-four.
I'm like, mm,  this ain't gonna work.
Yeah.
No.
I don't think I've ever had a favorite job.
Yeah.
I like where I'm at now,  but it's nothing that I was like, oh I'm gonna retire from here, cause I don't plan on  doing that.
I need to  work for myself.
I don't-  I don't b- do well working for people, yeah.
I don't like it.
Yes.
Now I did my research, and  I found a program at RD-SCHOOL-6, and they do the classes at RD-SCHOOL-6 Hospital.
Because I'm a r-  I'm a realistic person, and I know I have to still work full-time,   I'll work during the day and go to class in the evening four days a week.
So-  and it wasn't  too pricey  compared to some others, and it- and the thing that drew me to it is  it's no waiting list because everywhere else had  a waiting list, like MCC's RN program  is-  the waitlist is two years long.
Like but they want you to still- so technically people are going to MCC for four years to get their RN, where  I'm not doing that.
I'm taking a- uh,  a few shortcuts, like I'm gonna get my LPN program,  and then next summer, I'll start the LPN to RN program.
So in two years, I'll have my RN instead of four.
Yeah.
I'm cheating.
Yeah, I'm- I'm doing- Because I feel like I'm about to be thirty-two  and had I known all of this stuff about all these different programs and stuff, I probably woulda chose a different career path.
But my uncle was such- he was into academics, so he wasn't like,  nobody's being- I don't want you to go into nursing.
He's like, no you too, no I don't want you to do that.
And my sister, she was supposed to be a lawyer.
She's a social worker.
He's like, no, no.
Yeah, so it's  been-  mm, it's just, you live and you learn,  but I always thought like- you know, you see yourself when you grow up, I always thought I was gonna be a teacher until I experienced it.
I was like, I'm not doing this  at all.
I don't like this.
I hate these kids, like.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
It is.
Oh.
Yes.
It is-  it's the older- Well no, cause the little ones are off the hook too,  and then some-  I don't even know.
I don't- I wouldn't do it.
I wouldn't sign up for it.
Mm-hm.
Well, I've been interested in it for a few years because it was just something, like I thought about-  like I was working at the RD-WORK-4, and I got fired.
So I was like, hm, I'm gonna go back to school.
What do I want to go back to school for?
So I was researching all these things, whether I wanted to  pursue education again or do something completely different.
And I have a lot of friends that are nurses because working at RD-WORK-3, like you work with all walks of medical field.
And, um,  I wanted to do nursing,  but I had to pay my loans off before I could go back to school, and it took me, I would say, three and a half years  to pay my loans off  to go back to school.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, my sister was like, ah, good for you.
I owe a hundred thousand, like mm.
She has her master's.
Mm-hm.
And she- you know, like, they changed financial aid.
You used to be able to  borrow how much you wanted  and she was- wasn't working that-  all the time, so she would  borrow enough to pay her rent up because she lived off campus and all that, but  that comes back to haunt you, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And then too like, I wouldn't have had to pay it all off had I known, but like  me and my sister were our first generation to go to college.
I didn't know that you had to  communicate with them regularly, or you would go into default.
I didn't know you could defer a loan  because they were sending our mail to our house that burned down, but the mailbox is still intact.
So they were sending all of the mail there, but  we didn't- it was like a family  craziness.
My uncle who I was talking about, he committed suicide in the house  and set a fire in the process.
So we never went back to that house for anything.
And they were sending all of our mail there.
None of our mail got forwarded, like, nothing.
I had no idea I was    in depth with my loans  until like, you know, you file your taxes, waiting for your refund.
They're like, oh no, it's been garnished  by the New York State Department of Education.
I was like, for what?
Oh yeah, those loans that you signed for  when you had no idea what you were signing, reading, the APR, none of that.
So    that's how I found out.
They g- I was garnished heavily up until March, like garnishing my wages and I was making payments.
Mm, because it makes you look like a scofflaw for not paying cause it's been ten years since I've been in  school.
So it makes it look like you just completely ignored the debt, but I really didn't know much about it or how you go about paying it  until like I started  pulling up my credit report and calling these numbers that's on it, and what loan.
I was like, what loan?
I signed what?
And you know, they'll send you a copy of the paper  that you signed because they have all of that stuff.
And it was just complete  lack of  knowing or knowledge of  whatchu were signing when you were sevent- I was seventeen when I went to college.
So oh yeah, you-  so didn't know what I was signing, and because my mother didn't go to college, my aunt didn't go to college, my uncle didn't go to college, like  they didn't know either.
All I knew is I needed my mom tax forms.
That's all I-   that's all I knew.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah, that's what I told her, I said- like we were looking at the rental house.
She's like, oh my god.
I said, don't worry.
I'm buying a house.
You won't have to   look for a rental property.
Like, it's a pain.
Mm-hm.
I used to love it,  but there's been so  much change  in the district  and the school, and what they can and can't do.
It's-  it's different,  and I  want to pull her out of public school so bad.
Yeah, she won't be there for long.
RD-NAME-1 is, um, talking crap to me.
She's like, you gotta let her finish with her friends because she has two more years, this year, fifth grade, and the next year sixth grade.
But I think after fifth grade, she might be, um, done  at RD-SCHOOL-3.
I w- don't wanna separate her from her friends, but  it was just things that happened last year because RD-NAME-2 got one of the laziest teachers in the school, and I was just like-  like I would have questions about the report card,  and she's telling me like,  oh maybe you misunderstood.
Who?
I said, oh.
I said, I don't misunderstand anything.
I went to school to be a teacher.
W- I can understand that if she has-  you're giving her outstanding effort-  or outstanding grade, but she has a low number score or something because it's no A's and B's for the littles.
They do one through nine, outstanding, satisfactory, needs improvement.
It's weird how they do the report card.
But it wasn't- it wasn't adding up, cause you're saying she's doing  not so well  in social studies,  but you gave her a outstanding.
But  you also didn't- don't send home any social studies homework or work, and you don't do it in class, because I'm the parent who,  how was your day?
What'd you do in class?
Who'd you eat with?
What was this?
What was that?
Like, I'm asking questions,  and I'm  sh- they never do social studies, so how did you grade her on some work that was never done?
And then at the end of the year,  her math teacher-  math and science teacher never submitted his grades,  so she gave all the kids down the line the average grade.
So it looks like RD-NAME-2 went from a nine  to a six in math.
That's unacceptable because if I pull her to another school,  they look at  fourth  and fifth grade the most.
So, what- what are you doing?
Yeah.
So that turned me off from the school completely, and I even told the principal because I have a rapport with her cause RD-NAME-2's been there since kindergarten.
And I told her, I said, these teachers lazy.
Said she's not doing-  You sent the same homework, and they don't even get  a packet of homework.
They don't have their own books.
This is homework, like two pages front and back.
You sent the same packet home three weeks,  son.
Like three weeks, the same thing, no changes.
Oh, I said, why does she keep giving you this?
Because some kids didn't do it.
So you gonna keep giving it to the entire class?
It's been  just slack,  just slack.
And I understand it might be hard.
I guess her father was sick, but  bruh,  take a sabbatical.
Like, take a leave if you need to because these kids are suffering, like RD-NAME-4  a smart kid, so she was able to do really well in all the state tests and everything, but  I just see the laziness of the teacher, like  you got kids taking pictures of you so you can post 'em on Facebook?
When RD-NAME-4 told me that, I was like, she did what?
Excuse me?
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
So I don't think she will be th- Because I've gone to  city schools,  private schools, and suburban schools,  so I know the difference.
I know the shift.
And even when I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, like there were some great teachers.
I remember all of my teachers  in elementary school  because they had that much of an impact.
But to get  to see- I don't want my child to fall in the wastelands  learning because of a lazy teacher, or to get turned off from education from a lazy teacher.
Yeah, mm-hm.
Now, I've been doing my research.
For middle school, Aquinas is fairly cheap.
Bishop Kearney I can afford.
And they're both really good schools.
Or I'm tryna be in the suburbs somewhere because I don't do urban suburban.
I don't like it.
I don't like it at all.
So I wouldn't-  I would never do that    to her  because I know how people act with it from when I was teaching and in the schools, how they treat- I-  I know they treat the kids differently.
And my nephew was in urban suburban, and they assume that he has some  broke ass parent who just got lucky, and my sister, like I said, she has a master's in social work.
She's a professional.
She works for the government, like   she  went to the school a few times, and they're like, who are- hi, how can we help?
She's like, I'm RD-NAME-2's mom.
Oh.
Cause he's in urban suburban.
Like, oh.
Yeah.
So it's- yeah I don't like it.
Yeah, I tell everybody, like  told your sister like, no.
I don't want her to do urban suburban.
She's like, well West Irondequoit.
I said, no.
Mm-mm.
Move out there then.
That's how I really feel, like  if you want your kid to get the  best experience, you don't want them looked at differently, like  you live in the inner city, but your kid in Pittsford.
Your kid is on- you know what I'm saying, like I don't like it.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah, she definitely is and that's something that I- I've known RD-NAME-4 since she was four I wanna say.
Oh, I'm getting old.
And, um,  she's a bright girl,  and that's why I was so glad that she got into RD-SCHOOL-4 because I honestly-  You can't tell somebody to- what to do with their kids, but I was telling RD-NAME-1 like,  don't  do urban suburban for her.
Don't.
Please don't.
And, um, it worked out.
Mm-hm.
Like my friend, she's a nurse.
She owns her house in the nineteenth ward, beautiful house.
Her son went to private school for years.
His private school closed,  so she sent him to urban suburban, and he got put  at Pittsford.
Nasty.
The kids are  nasty as hell.
Nasty.
And I told her, I was like,  you need to look into something else.
I said, why didn't you just keep him in a private school.
She was like, oh I was thinking maybe I could get a break from tuition  because I've been paying tuition since he was in kindergarten.
And I was like, mm you don't get a break, I guess because  he is getting eaten alive by these white kids.
And  men, like he's a young man, like nobody deserves the ridicule.
And then not only were the white kids being jerks,  the black kids on the bus is being nasty.
So I'm like, huh,  what?
What is going on?
Because on the urban suburban buses  if you're   like say  Pittsford district, they pick up the kindergarteners,  the middle schoolers, and the high schoolers on the same bus.
So  you got this boy getting picked on by  high school kids.
No.
It's- no.
I ain't with it.
I am not.
And I feel like  if you are an involved parent  with your kid's education, they're gonna be successful  wherever they are.
It's just the element and the environment that I want changed.
Like, in RD-SCHOOL-3 they're getting kicked out of their building for her sixth grade year.
Who knows, like  if they're at Franklin, she ain't going there.
If they're at a high school, she's not going there  because she's in sixth grade.
Like, I went to RD-SCHOOL-4,  and we rode the bus sixth grade with the high schoolers.
The high schoolers like, hey what's up.
Like grown men trying to talk to kids.
So, I ain't with that.
Yeah.
It was a trip, like m- grown-  grown boys used to be buying lunch all the time.
I ain't never have to spend no money,  but I was young so I ain't think nothing of it, like, oh let me walk you to class.
Oh  oh let me   Okay, whatever.
Then one of 'em was like, yeah she's so pretty, da da da.
But you're- you have a full beard and mustache, son.
I was what, like eleven in six grade?
Twelve?
Eleven.
Yeah, I'm like, what?
So yeah I don't want her in that element, that environment.
Like I li- I didn't like when the city school district- they got rid of  most of the middle schools, if not all of them.
Think that that was the biggest mistake they made.
Like, let these kids be kids for a little while longer.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
It's too much.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I remember my first day in RD-SCHOOL-4, like after orientation,   then they're like  boop, okay.
Orientation was BS.
They didn't even really show you anything.
They showed you the cafeteria, the theater, something.
I felt like they showed us all the new parts of the school.
And then you get there the first day,  you're like, where am I supposed to go?
Oh my god.
Like you wa-  walk into that big-  First of all,  we rode RTS buses.
Shock.
Second, like you get there,  well, on said bus, it's grown ass kids getting on was like, where is she going?
RD-SCHOOL-4.
They just grown, like  they're in high school.
And then you get to the actual building.
You're like, where in the holy hell  am I suppo- what's-  what?
So it was a little bit of a shock, but my mom-  Again, like by that point,  when I was at RD-SCHOOL-4, my sister had already moved out with my aunt and uncle cause she was being bad in school.
So she was going to the private school already.
So then, once I started acting up, cause I was being off the hook too,  we all just- my mom was like, alright.
I ain't playing  with y'all today.
And we all went to  the private school.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, if you can afford it, yeah.
Yeah it's- Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Oh my god.
I'm'a have to call him back.
Sorry, that's my uncle.
I hope he bought the house.
Um,  my favorite thing about Rochester is  it  can have the metropolitan feel and the small town feel  at the same time.
And I like it, like  it's part- Like I went to a park the other day,  Turning Point Park right off Lake Avenue.
I was born and raised here.
I didn't know that park existed.
Like, the whole park is a pier.
The whole thing.
A pier.
Beautiful.
See.
There you go.
You're welcome.
No.
Yeah, it was-  it's like y- I- it's so many things to do here.
That's why when people be like, oh it's boring, it ain't nothing to do in Rochester,  there is a lot to do in Rochester.
And with my job, I do structured day program, we go out  to  places that half the time I've never even heard of.
But,  I like Rochester.
If I- I don't see myself relocating  until  she's going to college, like I'll follow her where she go cause I'm that type of person, parent rather.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well, the small town feel is ev- everybody knows everybody.
S- you gonna find- like you can go to, let's say,  a new job training.
You gonna find somebody who knows  you or somebody in your family.
And you can get anywhere in Rochester in like ten or fifteen minutes.
Now the metropolitan feel,  like the east  end area, it gives you that feel sometimes  until you go to a metropolitan area, like   I went to Boston recently.
I was like, oh lord.
Like,  beautiful.
But  it used to be different here.
I mean, you can  access stuff, and we get like-  we get nice concerts here, we have nice stuff here,  and we could have nicer things if people knew how to act.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
In Rochester, what do I dislike?
I don't know, I think  the narrow-mindedness of  the citizens of Rochester.
They don't  think outside of Rochester.
Like, people would rather spend  four, five hundred dollars to have  a party  here in Rochester where  you don't take a trip.
I know grown people who have never been on a airplane, and that's just preposterous to me, like what?
You've never flown anywhere?
Like I  try to- like, we went on family vacations every summer,  and I try to do the same thing with my child.
So you can see, it's things outside of Rochester.
Like I'll never forget, her first trip was to-  well the- her first trip that she could remember,  I took her to Ocean City, Maryland  and Baltimore.
She was like, I wanna move here.
Like I l- she was four, like I- can we stay?
I was like, we don't live here.
This is vacation.
It's just like,  people don't show their kids other things, so the generations up b-  under them are growing up very like  narrow-minded and not  thinking outside the box, just staying  complacent  in the same thing, not knowing anything different.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I don't know.
Mayb-  I don't know,  because  for it to be diverse, I mean yes our mayor is black,  but  I kind of think that was happenstance, cause I'd never heard of her until she was running for mayor.
I don't know if you have the same experience, but I ain't know who the hell she was.
I did not vote for her.
Um,   and it's like-  I wouldn't call it diverse.
We have  minorities in  powerful positions, but it's like  I don't know-  I didn't know who they were, or they weren't  advocating or  making theirself be known in the black community until it was time to vote.
So I wouldn't call it diverse.
I wouldn't call it diverse.
I don't think it is.
It's  m-  seriously like black  or white.
Like  I don't think Rochester's very diverse.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I don't think it- it really is, like I lived in Greece for three years.
I'll never forget because- you're gonna laugh.
The day I voted for Barack Obama the first time, I was followed by a Greece police officer from the moment I got in-  into the town because I was driving RD-NAME-4's dad's truck,  because my car was in the shop.
He had a black jeep with black rims and black tint.
They followed me.
I went from like up this way  to the grocery store when Wegmans was on Dewey,  to Little Caesars to get a pizza,  to the church to vote,  and then to the- my apartment.
And the officer followed me the whole time, and then when he see me get out I was like, are you following me?
He was like, yeah I was just seeing, da da.
I was like, what were you seeing?
I was like, I live out here.
I was like, you wanna see my license?
He was like, no, have a good day.
He literally followed me, and I was like  in Wegmans shopping for a while,  and Little Caesars for a minute, in the church voting for a minute, and he was  every step of the way like right behind me.
Mm-hm.
The summer- yeah it's been crazy but becau-  like I went- again, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 and RD-SCHOOL-2.
A lot of the police I personally know, like I've either went to middle- I mean high school or el- or college with them.
So I have never had  a negative  encounter with  any  law enforcement, not-  I don't know.
And I thi-  I've never had a negative  encounter,  even getting pulled over, I've gotten out of tickets by just keeping it real like  I don't drive illegally.
Oh, you s- you turned right when you weren't supposed to.
Oh I'm sorry I didn't know that.
Is that a new sign?
Oh yeah it is, okay,  be careful, have a nice- Like,  I don't- I've never had-  never had a negative experience.
And it's crazy because  my y- younger life like all of my mother's brothers  and nephews   sell drugs,  notoriously known by the police force  for being drug dealers.
But as I got older  I went to school with kids who are now police officers.
My last name happens to be RD-NAME-2,  but my mother's, their last name is notorious in Rochester for it.
Yeah it's- it's a trip.
So I see both  ends of it,  and I've never- I- I've never had a negative experience.
Besides the cop following me in Greece, but he backed down when I was like, what's up?
What's the problem?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Sorry.
Oh my goodness.
Uh-huh.
A lot of people assume I'm from down south.
They- I guess  we have a southern drawl to our speech,  but, um,  I don't hear it because I'm so used to it but  we were in- where were we?
Vegas.
And they're like, where are you from?
We're like, oh we're from New York.
They're like, really?
Really?
I said, yeah.
He's like, oh I thought y'all was from the Carolinas or something.
I was like, no we're from New York.
And then we met s- a guy, a- um, he was a bartender.
He was from Syracuse,  and he was like, oh where are you guys from?
And we told him too, it's like Rochester.
He's like, really?
Oh.
Like, even from  Rochester to Syracuse, they think we talk funny.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
She was born in a little town  in RD-ADDRESS-2, Georgia,  and everybody there- if we- if we go- because, uh, we have family members that go every year  we're related to every damn body in this little baby town, like it's a very small town.
And they came up there  f- with, um, my mother's oldest sister, she passed.
Her husband  came up here  to sell drugs  so he moved  the whole- my grandmother, like my aunt said,  I'm not going without my family,  so he moved my grandmother and all her kids up here in order to get his wife to come up th- here with him.
And, he started n- the- the drug thing up here.
He just passed away, and he was still selling drugs  in his seventies.
Oh yes.
I don't know, man.
Pills.
What-  what's it called?
The b- the- for guys?
What's it called?
Yeah.
Let's get it popping.
Yup.
He, um, he- my mom's family is from n- RD-ADDRESS-2, Georgia, and my dad's family is from  North Carolina.
They're from Charlotte,  and half- most of them are white.
My dad's w- biracial.
Most of them are white.
They still like  plantation.
Like, they still have the house,  and all of the family live in trailers on the land.
S- it's so messed up.
We used to go in the summer, but as we got older, my aunt didn't want us down there because now that we're older, like you can hang with your older cousins and they doing ratchet things, and she didn't want us-  they didn't want us doing ratchet things.
And my mother's so  like, narrow minded to travel.
She hated when we went out of town, and she said she didn't sleep.
Like, w- because we would always go with my aunt and uncle, she wouldn't get any sleep.
I remember our first time in Florida,  we came back, and she's like,  why y'all so dark?
Oh my god.
And da da da da.
Y'all ain't going back.
Like, she was very weird.
Yeah, she's weird.
She didn't like it.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah she told me, like, w- she was like, ever since that- y'all was going to Florida in the summer, y'all skin ain't been the same.
I was like,   whatchu mean?
We're- I'm black,  man.
What do you mean?
Yeah, even- I remember we were in- me and RD-NAME-2 were in Marshalls.
She was like  three or four in the cart, and she was talking.
This nice couple, black couple, they were like, oh my god she's so cute.
Where is she from?
I was like, we're from here.
They're like we're visiting from so and so.
He's like, she has a Southern accent.
I was like, really?
Mm-hm.
A lot of people think we have a Southern accent.
A lot of people think Rochester is country.
Think it's country.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, that would be interesting.
Because it-  assume like I- even like I w-  work with people from the city and went to college with people from the city, and they think we talk  funny, and they talk crazy to me.
Like- They talk funny.
They definitely talk funny and, um- Yeah.
Yeah they think we live in this cow-tipping town.
But I don't- Of course we don't hear it.
Yeah I would like- that would be interesting because I think we talk like the people on TV.
Ri-   Yeah, I'm tryna think like- I- like my one client again from Grenada, she-  she- uh, she said I have an accent also.
And I was like- she asked me like, where you from girl?
I was like, Rochester, New York  girl.
Like,  they think  we talk weird.
So that would be interesting to know like all the traveling.
You hear other people talk, like, you know, you can  spot somebody that I'm like, you're from Boston.
You're from Philadelphia.
You're from the South.
But I heard a-  I had never seen an Asian with a Southern accent and it blew  my mind.
Mind blown.
I was like, oh my god,  like I wanted to record him talking  cause it was so crazy to me.
But yeah it's-  it's interesting.
Mm-hm.
That was so fun, oh my god.
No problem.
Yes I do, and I had told like so- I don't know, I was like, oh I gotta do this with RD-NAME-2 tonight.
I was like, for her dissertation.
Like, yes.
So anytime I can help, you know I'm all for it.
I'm so excited.
So proud, oh my god.
That's so exciting.
I know you hear it all the time, but it's like, nigga we made it, no.