Uh, it would be southwest Rochester.
And um, I grew up on  RD-ADDRESS-5 Street.
Uh,  we lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
So that was my earliest- uh,  you know,  my childhood all the way up to, you know,  my teenage years.
Well, I think early, uh,  in my life when, uh,  attending grade school,  uh, the neighborhood was  I thinks  pretty much diverse  at the time,  and, um,  as I started getting older around maybe seventh, eighth grade, uh, people started moving out of the neighborhood,  that, uh, were white and, uh, other ethnicities.
And, uh,    what-  what tend to happen is that,  um,    uh,  blacks, uh, basically moved in  and so we settled in what was called the third ward at that time.
Well, the next part of Rochester, it- it sort of varied.
Uh, I still was, uh, located, uh,  uh,  pretty much in the Southwest.
But, uh, I moved, uh, across town to the Northeast.
Um,  and I was young at the time, I did a lot of, uh,  exploring as, uh, a young person.
Uh,  sort of troubled as a young-  uh, as a young man.
So, uh,  it took me to, uh, various neighborhoods in the city of Rochester at that time, so.
Uh, I-  I- I did have the experience, uh, very young, of living in  quite a few neighborhoods in the city of Rochester.
Yes, right in the s- southwest neighborhood.
Uh,  m- my earlier school was about maybe a four, five block walk.
Uh, we went to RD-SCHOOL-4 School on, uh, RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
Uh, we stayed very far from that.
And then around nineteen sixty-two, RD-SCHOOL-8, uh, opened.
And, uh, we were the inaugural, uh, students at that school.
And, uh, from there I went to, uh, RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
Um,   had a little difficulty at that school and then transferred to RD-SCHOOL-2 High School, uh, on RD-ADDRESS-4 Street, so.
You know, I was educated in the public school system.
Uh,  unfortunately I didn't graduate,  uh, but, uh,  I continued to, um,    uh, sort of strive around the city of Rochester.
Uh,  took a break back and forth, uh, lived a little bit in Binghamton y-  New York when, uh, I was young.
And, uh, when I came back here I settled once again,  uh, in the northeast part of the city.
Yeah.
Well, uh, w- what- what happened is that, um,    like I said I was-  you know I g-  I-  I got into, uh, trouble with, uh,  uh, narcotics.
Uh,  I was addicted very young as a young person to, uh, drugs, so it sort of followed that and  uh, th-  the lifestyle that I had back at, uh, you know tha- that time,  it  it move-  moved us to different cities and stuff because, uh,  we were in that,  uh, trade at that time and so, uh,  uh,  caused me to be very, very mobile  and, uh,  really not putting down a lot of roots anywhere.
Yeah.
Well th- the n-  the next step for me is that I wound up incarcerated,  but, uh, when I finally got out  uh, I settled down in the Northeast.
Uh, I got married,  uh, had my children.
Um,  worked, uh,  pretty much in the Northeast at the public markets and   things like that.
And, uh,  that  sort of,  uh,  started getting me somewhat settled.
When-  when, uh, I got out of incarceration,  uh, while I was incarcerated I accepted Islam.
And so, um,  I became Muslim and I started, uh, practicing the faith and, uh,  I attended, uh, the mosque on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
It was called RD-ADDRESS-4 at the time.
And, uh, from there, um,  I had various responsibilities and duties in the, uh, mosque until I sort of worked my way up and, uh,  I finally became the leader of the mosque and, um,  we ran- um,  um,  you know, we- we- we had a private school at that time, it was RD-SCHOOL-7 School.
Uh, we-  we educated our own children and everything else like that.
Uh,  uh, the school, uh, stayed around a good, uh, fifteen to twenty years before it closed.
Uh,  we fell on some hard times and, uh, closed the mosque but now, uh, we have a place, uh, on RD-ADDRESS-2 Boulevard right now, RD-NAME-9.
So, um,  what- what- what-  what tend to happen is that on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street, uh, we were confronted with a lot of, uh, graff,  uh, crime and corruption because  RD-ADDRESS-1 Street at the time in the, uh, northeast part of the city,  was- um,  it was a place that was filled with vice, uh, and for forty years it was like a red light,  uh, district.
And, uh, we decided to, um,  uh, do something about that.
Uh, couple times our mosque had been broken into so  we decided that we were gonna become, um,   I wouldn't say vigil-  vigilantes but were gonna try to take  our neighborhood and make something out of it.
So, uh, we were able to close about maybe three or four bars on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
Uh,  those bars are still closed today.
You can hardly find any crime and corrup-  corruption that is up there.
And  then based upon that, our group which was called  RD-WORK-1 at the time, RD-WORK-13,  we went to various neighborhoods,  uh, and tried to share with neighbors, uh,  effective ways of, uh,  getting drugs and-  and, uh, crime out of the neighborhoods.
Making public safety-  Uh, we helped the sisters start block clubs and things like that.
Based upon that, um,  I sat on a-  uh, a council that  the city of Rochester had at the time, Uh,  the mayor of the city of Rochester, the county exec, and a few, uh, local business people along with a lot of  community-based organizations.
They had a lofty goal of, uh, reducing, uh, drug addiction,  uh, in the city of Rochester by fifty percent.
So it was called Rochester Fights Back.
And, uh, it was a coalition.
I volunteered there for some time and then, uh, I was hired as a neighborhood coordinator,  uh,  for, uh, that organization.
And, um,    we- we didn't meet the goal of, uh, reducing drugs in ten years by fifty percent,  but, uh, we did uncover, uh, a lot of the things that, uh,  uh,  kept narcotics, uh, somewhat as a challenge for the city of Rochester.
Um,  the city of Rochester,  uh, would be  just like, uh, the public market is for people that wanna come in  from all over the region  and visit the public market,  buy food there.
Uh, I'm quite sure you know where the public market is and have-  and have been there.
Well, years they've been trying to take the public market and take it out of the city of Rochester, but  people love coming back in,  uh, to their old neighborhoods and driving into the city,  those that had left, uh, prior.
And, uh, the atmosphere is, uh,  uh, an atmosphere where it's very diverse and people sort of love that feel.
It's urban.
It's, uh, eclectic.
And, um,  uh, f- folks acs-  actually like that, right?
Well, if you  follow the analogy, um,  uh, drugs have a tendency to do the same thing in urban environments.
Uh,  people come from all over,  uh, the county,  uh, all over, uh, rural areas  to, uh, purchase narcotics in-  in-  in-  in the city, and so  the city actually becomes  the public market  for,  uh, those type of things.
So we've tried to work with,  uh, city police department and neighborhoods  to try and,  uh, deter people from coming in and doing that, but,  uh, racism,  uh,  uh, urban planning, uh,  uh, policies and, uh,  uh, faulty planning,  uh, redistricting, uh, our neighborhoods, regentrification  causes this to settle in,  uh, to such a degree  that i-  it becomes almost impossible to address.
And so  what we have in the city of Rochester now is that,  uh, based upon the drug trade and public safety, a lot of people have moved.
Uh, there's a little tax base now.
Uh, there's entrenched,  uh, uh, poverty,  uh, to the deg- g-  to the degree cause it's concentrated.
Then in turn, that turns over  to, uh, how the public school systems work  and operate and so you can see that.
So,  most of my life, uh, the sixty-three years that I've been here,  uh, I've been in the city of Rochester, and I watched the city,  uh, be very bustling,  uh, when I was a young person  with a- um,  a bustling downtown,  strong tax base,  to where I am now that we  see the city, it has a lot of challenges.
Well, I don't- I don't think too many urban, uh, cities across, uh, America has moved in a good- good direction with that, but,  uh,  to-  to just give you the local, uh,  uh, reality about Rochester is that  there's always an ebb and flow in terms of way narcotics are d-  d-  distributed.
When I was coming up as a young man, heroin was, uh,    uh,  a drug that literally  went through almost  all of the urban environments in America  and literally tore,  um,  uh, the urban environments down.
This is the f-  one of the first things that caused  maybe white flight.
Uh, then, uh, maybe around the eighties, uh,  cocaine came in and the crack cocaine epidemic  did the same thing.
Now there's a resurgent  again,  uh, for heroin, but this time,  uh, the d- dichotomy is- is that  it's just not an urban,  uh, issue or problem.
People from rural, um,  uh, areas in the suburbs, uh,  now we have, uh, uh, white kids getting very addicted to it.
And so  there's a outcry, and an alarmist view that, uh, something really needs to be done about it.
And so,  there may be, uh, an uptick  to try to address the problem,  but there seems to be a little bit more compassion now because  another demographic is, uh,  disproportionately,  uh, impacted by, uh, this drug trade.
And so, um,  most folks that could read the tea leaves,  uh,  basically said that this would happen.
Is that after a while if you think that you can control the masses of the population,  uh, s- especially in urban neighborhoods where it disproportionately  affects blacks,  uh, and, uh, minorities, uh,  that this thing would never touch,  uh, maybe the, uh,  uh, the rest of the dominant society it has.
And  I think in the Northeast, um,  it's m-  more prevalent in the Northeast than anywhere else.
It goes all the way up to the state of Maine.
It's- uh, it's a very, very big issue now, so.
You find, uh, the policies now,  uh, starting to be addressed  and, um,  uh, you starting to see maybe a little bit more compassion, uh,  uh,  around the, uh, criminal justice system incarcer-  incarceration and everything  taking, uh,  uh, its turn.
The neighborhood that I came up in, uh, RD-NAME-2 years ago,  uh, I can  just-  uh, just in a cursory way take a picture,  or a snapshot of all of my friends that have come up,  and not too many of 'em live now,  you know.
Uh, some have been incarcerated, some have passed,  uh, because of, uh,  uh, the life that they lived and everything else.
So,  I know first hand the devastation,  uh, of the neighborhoods and    what tends to happen,  uh,  uh, in the neighborhoods,  uh, linguistics  take over in the neighborhood  and shape it also too.
Shape it in the way of poverty, or shape it in the way of empowerment.
And what-  what-  what, uh, basically tends to happen is that,  when the educational system doesn't work,  uh, for the population that it needs to work for, right,  then, uh, the neighborhood,  the infrastructure and everything sort of caves in on,  uh, everyone.
And so,  Rochester has taken its toll, uh,  you know, uh, from that time.
Now I was a young man when, uh, the riots were here in sixty-four.
Um,  think I was around twelve years old,  at the-  at the time, and  what-  what, uh,  what-  what we were told when it was ha- happening, at least by our parents,  was that there was a lot of frustration in the streets,  uh, same climate as it is now,  uh, possibly can't get a job,  police brutality.
Uh, the same issues today, were the same issues of yesterday.
So, uh, you know,  there-  there was that fifty, sixty year,  um,  uh,  type of, uh,  uh, spiraling down of, uh, the neighborhoods and stuff  after the Civil Rights Act.
So  any time, um,  you know, minorities or blacks, uh,  have ever achieved something,  uh, that was, uh, momentous and monumental,  there's trouble after it.
There was trouble after slavery, uh,  uh, J-  you know, Jim Crowism, um,  uh, redlining neighborhoods and everything else.
So anytime that  a policy changed,  or law changed in favor,  uh, you know, of black populations,  the neighborhoods or the environments that they live in,  they were targeted for  cruel treatment,  um,  uh, misappropriation of- um,    uh,  of resources,  um,  uh, political, uh, isolation.
I mean, we have the same things today.
So,  we've got a  country where there's  close to  two hundred fifty million people,  and we find two candidates that everybody hates  to run for president of the United States, so.
Uh, you know, it- it let you know,  uh, you know, w-  where- where we're at as a  society and as a people.
But,  uh, black people have to do a little bit better for themselves,  and  one of the things that  we have to come to terms with  is that,  uh, the dominant society is never going to, uh,  liberate, or free us  until we go back to o-  you know, our basic  axiology  or our value system that is of value to us  which is our relationships.
Those are the biggest things that  black folks have.
The axiology of European people  is,  uh, an object and the acquisition of it,  and  that's- that's what they do.
They go around  and conquer and do things like that.
And I'm not saying that's good, bad, or indifference,  but I'm just saying is that,  uh, for us, as a people,  we have to put a black head on a black body.
We can no longer put a white head on a black body and thinks that we're gonna get results.
And, uh, not be impacted, uh,  you know, adversely, uh,  by, uh,  a lot of decision making because,  um,   it doesn't fit  the DNA of who and what we are.
And if we go back and look at,  um,  just the basic ancestors is that,  uh,  we-  we were clumped together by circumstances, right?
So, s-  uh,  you know, so anguinity, uh,  is-  is-  is a- is a thing that  you're related by,  um,  circumstance and situation versus, uh, blood.
And so, this is how we are as a people, so we always find ourselves  with,  uh, few options  other than  to stay  in close proximity  to each other.
Uh, whether we're educated, or not educated,  whether we have a economic situation, or we don't  somehow, or another, uh, we're still there.
And so,  uh,  we haven't ever been able in America to spread out  like, uh,  maybe other groups of people can do.
Didn't mean to go on so long but, yeah.
Yeah.
Well,  I th-  I- I don't think  that,  uh, his presidency has improved anything for us,  uh, other than,  um-    Uh, there's- there's a message that the dominant society wants us to carry around that, uh,  uh, you had a black president, and things have changed.
Uh,  which is, uh,  uh, basically far from the truth.
He-  uh, Barack Obama hadn't been able to do  a whole lot for our community.
Uh,  I think  we'll see, uh, his real value  and his worth after he's president.
Uh, that's where, uh,  we possibly have to hold him to the-  to the fire, or, uh,  uh, put our judgements.
But,  without a doubt,  the President of the Unites States  is more of a figurehead,  uh, type of a situation,  and we found that out quickly.
Uh, we were deluded to think that,  uh, this guy could do something  just for, uh, black folks  and, uh, not things for the country.
And so  the, uh, climate that you see today  was based upon how  the dominant society hated,  uh, this guy  that was in the office.
And so,  there was an uptick,  a little bit more police brutality,  uh, a little bit more, uh, racism,  uh,  individualize, but, uh,  uh, the- the structured racism  is still the same.
It's not anything  that's gonna be dismantled.
Uh, white privilege was  basically,  um,   somewhat danced around in folk's face  while he was the president.
So he was the president for eight years.
Uh, not a l-  not a l- lot happened  socially,  uh,  uh, for the country.
Uh,  healthcare a- improved,  uh,  most certainly he took us out of, uh,  the recession,  uh, all of the things that  in my opinion should make someone take a look and say,  this a pretty good legacy, you know.
Um,  but what's gonna happen in terms of us as a people, we're gonna have to realize  that  collectively,  uh, as a group,  we have to make strides, and that  we cannot depend on the federal government because  the federal government only comes  to our aid  when there's a crisis.
And, uh, you literally have to tear up something in this country  in order to get people to see,  uh, that it's a crisis.
White folks have this dissonance about them  that,  uh, they wanna sleep good at night  and don't feel any guilt or anything else like that.
So,  uh, they'll deny,  uh, the history  that it was brutal for blacks,  that, uh, they gained a lot of wealth,  uh, uh, basically up off of blacks.
They even taking, um,    uh, books today and maybe you could  be able to do something about that.
But the Texas repositories where  they have all the classroom books and stuff like that,  uh, I read where  they're saying that, uh,  they're changing the language that there was slavery, chattel slavery to  forced immigration.
And so when you- when you have language like this here that denies what has happened, uh, to a people,  and, uh, expect that that-  to be alright just so you can breathe  and feel comfortable about yourself, then  it means that we haven't really made the strives that was-  wa- was-  we supposed to have maken.
But getting back to the president, um,  was he a good president for the United States?
I think so, but  blacks really didn't get anything out of, uh, that, uh,  uh, but we hope that the way it's paved, uh, for later that,  you know,  uh,  they take the skills of leadership  for what they originally was,  which was a community organizer,  and organize people around issues,  you understand, so  we can finally have our say and reach our destiny.
Well, w- w- once again, uh,    as blacks we've always had to put-  uh, we put most of our eggs in, uh, politics.
And  this is what tends to happen  is that  Lincoln frees the slaves, so we- we- we vote  Republican for a hundred years.
Uh, the Voting Rights Act happen, so we vote Democrat for the  past fifty, sixty years.
Uh, most of the urban, uh, communities  are democratically r-  uh, run.
And so, um,    for Lovely to, uh, come in and become mayor,  uh, she took the track of going in  and being on City Council first  and becoming President of City Council.
So, a lot of the, um,  projects that,  uh, the dominant society in Rochester wanted to put forth,  uh, in terms of how the  downtown was gonna be designed,  how, uh, new housing was gonna come in for,  uh, folks so,  uh, we- we can get more people to come back into the city,  and become residents increase the tax base and stuff like that.
A lot of that was done on her watch  when she was, uh,  President of City Council.
Uh, city council's the one that has to make the, uh, policies,  approve, uh, land acquisitions, all the tax things like that.
And so, uh, people was really shocked when she says she wants to run for mayor.
Uh, they were told  it's not your time.
And, uh,  you know,  I think most blacks applaud her  for taking the initiative to say,  well, it is my time.
So I think, uh,  the, um,    community of Rochester, especially black folks,  are still excited about m-  Mayor Lovely Warren.
Even though we haven't seen all  that  is supposed to happen in terms  of the neighborhoods that we're left in crumbling.
Um,  so, she gets a pass.
Uh, hopefully she can get reelected  and more, uh, African Americans can come out with ideas for development and stuff  and possibly get it passed through  up under her- um,  up u-  up under her leadership and her being the m-  her being the mayor.
Um,  you know, Bill Johnson, he sort of paved a way for her.
And, um,  I heard that, uh,  uh,  folks such as himself and a lot of other folks, uh,  she- she has a tendency, uh, to listen to.
Uh, but once again,  uh,  she has the-  the-  the Barack Obama,  uh, f-  phenom in- right here in Rochester, to whereas that  if there's appearance  that you're trying to do everything, uh,  to help, uh, blacks,  and it doesn't perceive that, uh,  white folks, especially business leaders, can get any,  um,    uh, uh, justice in terms of, uh, the grab back that they're supposed to get,  well, she's got a tough  balancing act to do that, and  you possibly can see that in, um,  the, uh,  th- uh, the billion dollar effort to, uh, renovate the schools and stuff like that and the boards  of where the money's supposed to go and,  uh, what have you.
It was supposed to increase jobs for African Americans.
That didn't happen up under her watch.
There's a lot of criticism about that, but  I believe that black people have to understand  that when blacks get into office,  it doesn't mean that we're gonna make it, because politics doesn't make it for us.
Politics  d-  does start  the effort,  uh, for power  to where you can get inside information,  or you can develop things, possibly open up some businesses,  have an insight on,  uh, some of the things that you possibly need in order to-  to make these things happen.
But it doesn't mean that there's a  symbolic  cupboard  that you can open up  and then that-  that there's a grab back for everyone and so  that's what I think that the African American, uh, community, the black community has to guard itself against that.
Uh, someone is gonna be a savior for us.
Well,  le- le- let me go back, once again, uh,  I've been here for sixty-three years with my family, uh, I'm a fourth generation  person  here in the city of Rochester, so.
Uh, I've gotten, uh,  first hand accounts from, uh,  uh, my parents and grandparents, uh, how the city of Rochester  has been,  uh, maybe since the twenties.
But, uh, let me- let me say this here is that,  uh,  I'm gonna speak about the- uh, uh, the micro here but the macro is- is that,  uh, after World War Two, uh, they passed the GI Bill.
Uh, the GI Bill, uh, helped, uh, folks that went over to fight in the wars.
Uh, when you came back, uh, you were able to get a loan for  housing,  possibly, GI Bill to go to school and everything else like that.
Well,  African Americans, uh, had it a little different.
Uh, they can only buy housing in certain neighborhoods.
Uh, that housing was redline.
Uh, that housing also was, uh,  crumbling down in neighborhoods.
Uh, they couldn't basically use the bill to get into a lot of colleges  because the admission wouldn't let them get in or anything else.
And so what you  tend to, uh, have  is that  your start  for you and your family is not one to where  in the next generation you could leave 'em a house,  leave 'em some money,  uh,  you know, uh, basically to do s-  those things.
So  that's the structural racism right there.
Uh, that's the racism that is, uh,  in, um,  uh, the structures, whether it's, uh,  uh,  uh, redlining for, uh, insurance,  um,  making sure that, uh, a neighborhood is blackballed to where  you can't get out of it or move,  uh,  uh, anywhere else and you're somewhat landlocked  to where you basically can be.
Uh, in terms of promotions,  um,  in terms of, uh,  uh, uh, jobs,  uh, in terms of, uh, uh,  uh, corporate ladder and stuff like that,  in the fifties and sixties,  it was very, very hard here.
Even though Kodak  was a  major employer,  and a lot of blacks did very well  being in there,  uh, they didn't have the jobs,  uh, that was compared to, uh, a lot of whites and stuff like that.
Uh,  their- their- their positions, um,  didn't lend very much but, uh, through hard work and stuff like that  the African American community,  uh,  some people became mobile and was able,  uh,  to- to move out.
As I understood, Xerox years ago,  uh, there was an organization called FIGHT.
Uh,  it was run by, uh,   uh, Minister Franklin Florence, uh,  as a y-  a y-  a young man.
It was on, uh, Prospect Street.
We could go down there look in the window and see him negotiating,  uh, with the powers that be, uh, in the city for,  uh, better jobs, better housing,  uh,  uh,  you know, basically for blacks.
But in Rochester, Rochester's always been  a tale of two cities.
It was very rich because  there was Xerox and there was Kodak  and there was this  enormous amount of wealth.
Uh, but when you went to the third,  uh, the seventh ward  and, uh, some of these places here in the city of Rochester,  uh,  the same concentrated poverty,  in the neighborhood that I grew up in,  it's still the same, uh,  where it is at there.
So  there's not a lot that has improved, uh, in terms of the infrastructure,  uh, to where  poor people are at.
When they migrated up here, uh, in-  in the South,  and I seen a lot of folks,   uh, with the Great Migration in the fifties.
When I was coming up as a little boy and stuff like that  there was only two neighborhoods that you can grow up in.
It was the seventh ward, where the riots broke out at,  and the third ward, where the riots, uh, ended at.
And so, that was, um,  you know, the powder keg for that.
Uh, we fast forward to this day and time,  there's still that same type of dynamic  that,  uh, has a tendency to work here because people  are still a little sick and tired of it, and,  uh, th- things don't get any better.
Uh,  police treat young people always, uh, with disdain, if, uh,  uh, they're black, uh, you get harassed and stuff like that.
So,  you know, racism is always alive and well.
And,  when young people don't see it getting any better,  uh, you know, then they strike out.
And, uh,  you know, Black Lives Matter and some of the other organizing things that,  um,  is causing them to,  uh, become, uh, woke,  um,  very, very easy for these things right now to manifest themselves.
And I think,  uh, it's their time now  uh, for the equality.
Yes.
I- I think-  I think the work of BLACK is, uh, pretty good.
I know a f- few of the folks that are in there.
Um,  uh, but w- one thing that,  uh, they may miss, uh,  the mark on as, uh,  uh, young people so often do,  uh, they sort of organize around,    you know, what is fad-ish,  and not so much around the issues in terms of really understanding them.
Uh,  they're more so of a reaction,  you understand,  to the, uh,  injustices and inequalities of the dominant society.
Uh, but there's not a whole lot of organizing  that you might have seen in the sixties,  uh, w- w- with the Black Power movements.
The Black Power movements  were more about self help  more than anything else.
Uh, initially these groups are  a little bit more of a protest,  uh, more so than organizing and trying to  take, um,  the black intellect and form an intelligentsia to, uh,  lead the movement.
Mm-hm.
No, they weren't born here.
Uh, my- my  m-  my grandmother on my-  on my father's side, I know more about that  side than my mother's side.
But my grandmother came from, uh, Bradford, Pennsylvania,  uh, in nineteen twelve and she settled here and she married, uh, my grandfather.
He was from North Carolina.
But, uh, we do have, uh,    an infamous, uh,  great-grandfather who fought in the Civil War.
And uh, he came  to Rochester with my  grandmother a little later on,  when my grandfather had a  terrible car accident.
He was over road truck driving, he lost his eye in a  accident, and so,  uh, my great-grandfather came to help my grandmother raise her children here.
And, uh, his name is RD-NAME-2.
Uh,  his discharge paper's in the Smithsonian.
Uh,  he fought, uh, in the Civil War  and he died nineteen thirty-seven here in, uh, Rochester but, uh,  he's- um,  uh,  he's in the R-  Rochester public libraries, and he's part of Afro-Rochester.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well, uh, along in this time, they- they felt as though- that there was opportunities up here.
Uh, some of my mother's- uh,  my grandmother's, uh, sisters,  uh, they lived in, um,  uh, Le Roy, and then some of 'em moved to, uh, Buffalo,  uh, where- where there was a rural help where you could  work like on farms and stuff like that.
Uh,  my grandmother came here and,  you know, she was high school educated and everything else.
Uh,  my, uh, grandfather was over the road truck driver and there was a lot of, uh,  um,  uh, stuff to ship back and forth  up here in upstate New York.
Uh,  more s-  more so than there would be in the south.
Uh, my grandmother also used to  iron and do laundry for,  uh, you know, rich lawyers and stuff like that that lived on Plymouth Avenue  at that time.
They grew up,  they had a house there on, uh, RD-ADDRESS-3  where, uh,  most of us all grew up at or we gathered around.
And so that was their, uh,  entre here.
Uh,    my parents- um,    my father, he grew up, he didn't take really good advantage of, uh,  of, uh, all of his potential.
So he-  he always wound up being a laborer and stuff like that, but I had aunt-  aunts and uncles that, uh,  uh,  you know, they tried  to,  uh, follow suit, go to school, and s-  and- and things like that.
I had a aunt, she was  possibly the first, uh,  female, uh,  police officer, uh, that made Sergeant,  uh, here on the Rochester police department and,  you know, she became a lawyer, a corporate lawyer for, uh, Kodak  and things like that.
So,  you know, our family basically settled here and did alright.
Uh,  my brothers and sisters they're in pretty good shape, uh, also too, so.
Uh,  being up here,  uh,  we-  we heard a lot of stories, especially my mother and them, they're from the South,  of, um,  you know, prejudice,  uh,  brutality and everything else.
But up here, there was a lot of racism and things too, and, uh,    according to my father and everything else like that, you know, they were always  the only blacks in the school or,  uh, in a classroom and stuff like that.
So,  they sort of faced some things also too.
Uh,  they adjusted very well.
Uh, as you know, black folks are resilient,  so,  uh, you make the best  of the situation that you're in.
No, all- all of my brothers and sisters are here except one.
He's in- uh, my- my younger brother, he's in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Um,    he- uh,  he works for, um-   Oh I gotta try to  think of the- He works for RD-WORK-2.
He's an engineer at RD-WORK-2, so, uh,  it's a German company and stuff like that.
He has to go to Germany s- sometimes also too.
But, uh, you know, he's well adjusted out there.
He's, uh,  at the headquarters out there in Tulsa,  Oklahoma.
Uh, my oldest sister retired from, uh,  uh, the RD-WORK-9 where she worked at the hospital, uh,  she had gotten her doctorate.
Uh, my other sister next-  next to me had worked for RD-WORK-2 for so many years.
And I have a older brother, uh, believe it or not,  uh, he's one of the top ski instructors in New York State here, so.
Uh,  family is sort of  rounded out  pretty well and, uh,  you know, I guess we can attribute most of that to our parents.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well,  I d- I- I-  it all depends.
I- I-  I never know where I'm going but, uh,  uh,  you know, uh,  what I try to do maybe the last ten, twelve years, is put an emphasis on supporting my wife, RD-NAME-3.
And, uh, she went and got all of her education and, uh, she's got career goals and stuff like that, so  you never know, we might have to pack this stuff up and go somewhere.
But, uh,  she has a passion for community colleges and, uh,  you know, she would like to be a president of one one day, so we- we- we'll have to see what happens.
And, uh,  uh, certainly, uh,  I guess I'm prepared to travel with them if, uh, they decide that they wanna do that.
Well,    all that I've told you, uh, about Rochester and it's challenges and stuff like that, I-  I believe that it's, uh,  still a great city.
Uh, historically, uh, it may be something in the water, what have you, but,  uh, the Nineteenth Century Freedom Movement, uh,  is basically an international movement that was started here with Frederick Douglass and Susan B.
Anthony.
And then there's other  folks that have come along  to, uh, make this, uh, an industrial giant, uh, George Eastman,  uh, Joseph Wilson, everyone.
So  there's something about Rochester that, um,    uh, it has,  uh, a very, very rich history  and a resilience for working together.
And,  uh,  my understanding of studying history,  Frederick Douglass came here because, uh,  the people had tolerance.
And so, uh,  you know, if we can find those things again, I'm quite sure that  there's other folks that are being born right now, or  have yet- we've yet to hear their voice, that are gonna do something similar.
And so, uh,  once again it could be, uh, something in the Genesee River or what-  whatever, the Hemlock Lake or what have you, but,  uh, very brilliant people come out of, uh, Rochester,  uh, very decent and hardworking people of all, uh,  races and creeds.
Um,  I've- I've always been excited of, um,  you know, a lot of the African American accomplishments that, uh, have happened in the city,  and how, uh, we should uplift those things, and, uh,  make them, uh, sancrosant.
Uh,  to-  that they have a value for us and that we don't forget it.
And, uh, certainly, uh,  persons such as yourself, you make us proud because  you're going further than what, uh, we could ever imagine or dream of.
Mm-hm.
Well, wo- once again, uh, in the fifties and sixties, people came here from the South  and so,  we heard a lot of southern accents.
And, uh, we were made fun of just based upon how we,  um, had names for certain things.
In the South when you came up here, uh, you wanted a soft drink, they call it a soda.
We call it pop up here.
And so, um,  uh,  folks from the South would think that,  uh, we're somewhat proper  in-  in-  in o-  in our- uh,  you know,  our speech, or,  you know, to the degree that, um,  we grew up  not so much,  uh, in close proximity,  uh, with each other in the fifties and sixties.
Now,    uh, there's a mixture  of- uh,  of, uh, all of that language and- and-  and how it has gotten passed down.
When you- when you mix it-  when you mix it up you get a hodgepodge  of,  uh, southern dialect    and, uh, northern dialect.
Uh, the dialect of New York City's much different from borough to borough.
You know, uh, that dynamic is based upon,  uh,  i-  is a-  the linguist, uh,  somewhat comes and melts together.
You get Irish, Italian,  African American.
And so everyone  has a-  um,  uh, an accent,  you know, that's similar  or the same, you know, and, I mean,  that's the way that,  uh,  uh, environments, uh, basically do to where  you would never hear that anywhere else.
Uh, you would go to Boston and possibly just  basically hear,  uh, a very strong Irish accent  out of everyone that's in the region.
So,  uh, I don't think Rochester ever had anything in terms of an accent,  uh, for, uh, blacks.
But  one thing that blacks prided themselves on when I was coming up, my-  my parents and grandparents and everything,  is that you had to try to s- speak as proper as possible, you know.
I mean, you couldn't  shortcut things or anything else like that.
They were afraid that there was some,  uh, big white person in the sky or somewhere that was gonna look at you and say that, you know,  uh, you're-  you're- you're an ignorant so-and-so, so,  um,  you know, we were always encouraged to read the newspaper and stuff like that.
And so, um,    our dialect  was n-  was- was nothing that we could ever hone in on.
Uh,  we had to try to  s- so- sort of master, uh, our intellect and, uh, how we articulated a thing.
But, uh, as people were coming up from the South, migrating and stuff like that,  um,  you live in cl-  close proximity, then you find yourself  somewhat almost with that accent, or  at least some of the dialect.
And we ha- w- we had folks that  if they come from Louisiana,  they come from South Carolina where  folks were Geechee and stuff like that, they come up.
Uh,  it sort of gets passed down, but,  you know.
I mean, that's- that's- that's the way that it is, and the m-  more that  folks have to come together based upon circumstances,  you see the linguist, uh,  type of thing.
It changes,  um,  after a few generations.
Well,  I think, uh,    w- when you- when you come to upstate New York  once again,  it's that, um,  it all depends if-  if you're coming to rural upstate New York,  uh,  it- there's sort of, uh,  a farmer's  type of, uh,  uh,  dialect, but, uh,  certainly in Rochester, what, uh, this city has  pushed  is  su- s- such of its intellectualism because of, uh,  its universities, uh,  and its industry and stuff like that.
You really couldn't-  I never really got a pitch,  uh, to where I said,  that sounds Rochesterian, you know.
Uh,  you know it just doesn't, but I've traveled a lot of places,  and  even in Pennsylvania, you get the strong Dutch  type of, uh,  accent and stuff like that, but up here, I- you just can't  I c- I just could never tell.
Uh,  the- the- there may be-  there may be that  but,  um,  it's not something that, uh,  uh,  registered with me  in- in such a way, you know.
Mm-hm Yeah, yeah.
Um,  you know, there might be a little-  little something to that but  w- one thing is is that    for African Americans, uh,  the- there wasn't that really mixing  of, uh,  uh, the races in the fifty and sixty, even though we were in the neighborhoods and stuff like that, there still wasn't that,  you know.
Folks sort of looked down  each other, they sort of  kept to themselves and stuff like that, and as whites moved out  and blacks moved in,  uh, you know, your folks would challenge you,  I don't wanna s- ever hear you speaking like that.
You know, so.
Uh,  but in terms of, uh,  uh,  the dominant society and, uh, their dialect or something like that,  I just never picked that up.
I just never,  you know.
So we  sort of have to see that.
I mean,  I guess in your study of it there's-  the- the- there may be some keys and some things to  basically look at,  uh, in- in order to,  um,  detect  or, you know, become aware of.
But, uh,  I think  people are like this here.
As they  go through their daily routines,  uh, that's something that is so  unconscious  that,  you know.
I'm amazed that, uh,  a lot of the  actors and actress that, uh,  you know, they're from England, when they come over here and they  act in these movies and stuff like that, you  never knew that they had the accent, you know.
So, I mean,  people sort of switch it up, but yeah.
Uh,  wherever you go  you do pick up the accent.
But there's- there was never one up here that  I thought  was picked up,  you know.
Downstate New York?
Yes,  without a doubt.
You can go from borough to borough and it's much different.
Queens they speak way different than the Bronx.
The Bronx  is a little bit more heavy  laden and-  and sort of longated, you know.
Uh,  Brooklyn has more of a-  uh, you know, a rhythm to it and Manhattan, they're just-  it's like their head is up in the clouds, you know.
S- I don't know why it's like that  but,  you know, it's- it's just different.
Automatically when friends come up  or I know somebody, they say I'm from New York City, I say you from the Bronx.
You almost can detect it, so  it's- it's just not like that  up here, and, um,    I never noticed it in Buffalo either, so,  you know.
Yeah Well, once again, you know I- I like Rochester.
Uh,    I think we always have to have,  uh, a place that,  uh, we can say is home,  you know, no matter where you go.
Uh, and then say well Rochester is home, you know.
And, um,  be fond of telling folks of, uh,  uh, your childhood because, uh, it was a good childhood.
So I think, uh, based upon  who and what your family is, then that's what your town is.
Uh, you might not like it so much if you didn't come from,  uh,  uh, the type of loving and caring,  uh, family or environment.
Uh, someone ask you about Rochester, I hate it.
Because all of your  circumstances and situation,  uh, when you were young o- or whatever, it- it- it just brings up the pain about it.
But  I've got fond memories of coming up, uh,  you know, playing, hanging out and,  uh, exploring, uh,  lot of places that we weren't supposed to go and things like that, when we were little we  did it anyhow,  uh, behind our parents' back, so.
You know, it was a lot of adventure here in Rochester for me, so,  you know,  I'm sort of a proud Rochesterian.
Yeah.
Mkay.
Sure.
Yes,  without a doubt.
Okay, thank you.
I hope I've contributed.