Mm-hm.
Okay.
Oh, that works out, that works out.
Mm.
Oh okay, alright.
Yes, born and raised in Rochester, so, um, I grew up on,    it's  I would say nineteenth ward,  nineteenth ward, Southwest area, uh, RD-ADDRESS-5 was the main street.
Um,  to this day  my grandmother is still there.
Um, so technically, you can say that that-  that  house raised about a good three generations.
You know, and that goes for my little sisters and then my generation,  and then  my uncles.
So, it's- it's- it's weird, but  yeah, we've been there for a long, long time.
You know, I- My parents, my parents, um, I have- I have-  on my dad's side,  I would say,  um,  I have  three uncles,  one aunty.
Um,  m-  the first born son and the  m- first born lady,  they was born in  Mississippi.
That's where my grandparents were from.
Um, so when they came up here, that's when they had two more children, which is my father  and then  my uncle.
So,  they broke in, they broke everybody else in.
Once they was born in Rochester they found the spot that was on RD-ADDRESS-2.
And the rest is history, like  RD-ADDRESS-3, that whole street is in the lineage as well  cause of my m- mother.
And my granny used to l-  my granny and my grandfather used to live on RD-ADDRESS-3  when-  on my mom's side when m-  my grandma  and my grandad on my dad's side moved on RD-ADDRESS-2.
So everything was in close proximity.
It's weird,  but  yeah, I guess it worked out for the best.
Right.
Right.
Um, From back then or now?
Both, okay I can do that.
Um, back then, was-  I can honestly say,  that was like the definition of what the word community is.
Cause, you know,  um, I wouldn't say that I was, you know,  the greatest child.
You know, I mean, I was a good kid.
Me and my brother was a good- we was, uh, good kids,  you know.
However, we did get into some bad stuff, you know,  playing hide and go seek, jumping on roofs and stuff and, you know, just-  just getting into  anything, you know,  defying rules and everything.
So, you know,  when the situation pops up and you get whooped by the neighbor before you get whooped by your grandmama,  and then after your grandmama, get whooped by your mama,  that's when you know everybody's on one accord.
You know, so like, that's- that's- that's the epitome of what I grew up in.
You know, so I always have to watch what I do  because  there's always eyes on me,  you know what I'm saying.
And  just to translate it towards now, you know,  and it's not just my neighborhood, it's other neighborhoods as well,  where  neighbors do not  care to speak to one another  or to understand,  hey,  uh, I just moved in over here, you know,  my name is such and such, I have a son, I have a daughter.
Not a lot of people do that,  you know, so that's one of the things I've picked up.
Um,  and growing up,  I would say once every- every house that I've been in, I've  vowed to know exactly who's around.
Because, you know, right now, I'm  engaged.
I have- uh, I have  step kids.
I have five step kids,  you know, the  two littlest ones, the twins, they are  very vocal.
They love playing outside, so if anybody has other kids around, you know, they would definitely make friends.
So I'll h- have to know, okay if they are friends with them, I got to know where they live at.
You know, I don't want nobody having no type of issues.
If I can talk to their parents then that'd be wonderful.
You know, and  some- some  of those kids want to cling on and do  activities with our family, so I make sure that they co- aks their parents, you know.
Things like that, that's how it's supposed to be, but,  you know, a lot of people doesn't- the- it- that doesn't happen  nowdays.
I think it's, uh, more of a  thought like,  you can't trust people, I think.
It's a- it's a- I don't know, it's a- it's a-  hm, it's a hard-  it's a- it's hard to touch on.
Because yes, some people can't be trusted.
However, if you don't try to see if you can trust 'em, you'll never know.
It's just  people  don't try.
Yeah, people don't try.
It's- it's a- You know, I love my city,  and so I kn- I know- I know what my city has been through.
I was born when we were seven one six as the area code, so  it- it's different now,  you know.
And  now, I'm living on the east side,   after growing up on the west side for so long.
I'm still a west-sider, but I just know a little bit of the east side.
Yes, um, actually,  um, I've lived  in other  cities as well.
Um,  I would say,  mostly, uh, in Rochester, I've lived on the west side  up until my later years.
Um, younger, I've lived in, uh, Georgia.
I've lived in Palmdale, California.
Um,  went and visited a couple of other places, had  like homes in other places, like, uh, Michigan and, um,  yeah, Saginaw, Michigan, that's exactly where it's at.
And, uh, Harlem, New York, cause most of my family is from Harlem.
Um,  but other than that,  yeah, I was- it was mostly here.
Growing up was on the west side.
Once I got towards, uh, high school actually,  that's when  I came- we came back from California.
I did my ninth grade year in California.
It kind of messed me up cause a lot of things.
I've-  Hm,  their school's curriculum was very very different.
And with a lot of stuff that was happening at that time, it was very hard to concentrate.
So I bombed my ninth r-  my ninth grade year.
However, I've l- I learned  so much spiritual wealth.
It's- it's- it's mindblowing.
Even though I- even though I-  my grades wasn't looking like it, I- I n- I came back home with a new mindset.
Once I came back home, actually got a house right across the street from my mama-  my grandmama,  I'm sorry.
And, um,  then we had moved to the  w-  east side  for my twelfth grade year, um, in RD-ADDRESS-3 off of RD-ADDRESS-2.
And which that was cool,  you know, that was  more of a sense of community too, because everybody knew everybody.
I mean,  once you're in a apartment complex, it's kind of hard not to talk to  somebody else.
Um,  yet, still peop-  people didn't talk to other people.
You know, but  that was- that was a good environment.
Um,  and after RD-ADDRESS-3,  I would say-  oh yeah, after RD-NAME-3, I  bombed college.
It was unfortunate.
I was- I was- I was a lost puppy.
Um,  basically, I was trying to  go for what I graduated in.
I graduated from medicine  engineering.
So I tried-  I wanted to go for, um,  computer hardware engineering.
And that's what I had signed up for when applying to RD-SCHOOL-7 University.
I got accepted,  yet when I- when my parents drove me down there,  and, you know, moved me in,  and I  really got down to my major,  it seemed that on their centennieth  year,  basically on they hundredth  year being there,  they took out my major  last minute.
So it was either take computer information systems  or come back next year when my parents already left me.
So, you know.
And then a whole bunch of stuff-  whole bunch of other stuff happened  that really got me lost in the sauce.
I wasn't- I was-  I was a person that  cared more about family, than  I would say social experiences.
Um, when I was in high school, the Upward Bound is what had me  actually express myself and learn how to socialize with other people.
But before that I was just a homebody.
I just knew I was a big brother.
I'm a role model.
I have to set an example.
That's all I knew.
Um,  so once I go into college, oh my god, socializing  became a priority  instead of-  you know, instead of something to  just  ease your mind on.
You know, it became something that  I felt that I needed  to do.
That's what I was down there for.
You know,  I did a lot of stuff in music,  got into a couple of battles.
One person that I have battled is actually the face of battle rap at this moment.
His name is RD-NAME-2.
Hey,  it's cool.
It was- it was very cool.
Um,  so,  you know, those experiences helped me,  you know.
And when I came back, that's when I moved back with my, uh, grandmother on RD-ADDRESS-2.
Um,  tried to do RD-SCHOOL-3 a little bit,  just to figure out  what I really wanted to do.
Then I realized I just really wanted to do music,  and  what I wanna do with music  is not  in Rochester.
However,  now I'm just focused on  having a project.
Like,  right now,  all of these life lessons that I'm saying, it's like  my project is called RD-WORK-2.
You know,  it kind of-  I'm a tall guy, so it kind of r-  relates to me  growing up  from a kid to an adult.
But it's also me growing up into knowing myself,  on top of that  seeing how I've grown as a artist and how my music sounds differently.
Uh, I realize how powerful  words are.
So,  with those words, it's kind of like  they're divine.
So whatever you say, you bring to yourself.
When I first started writing, I was a very violent person.
And then I brought that  to my actual life  after saying it for so long, so I had to change my approach, my whole entire approach  just to be more light.
You know, so, now I'm here.
Now I'm here.
Um, I live on the east side now,  uh,  on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street  off of RD-ADDRESS-2.
Um,  RD-ADDRESS-2 is not bad to me,  you know.
Um,  I'm actually volunteering for,  uh,  outreach  uh, RD-WORK-3,  um, RD-WORK-10, they're called RD-WORK-1, uh, RD-WORK-3.
Um, basically, they-  it's- it's- it's pretty- it's pretty heavy what they do,  and it's very much needed.
Like if  anything in the-  uh,  the one four six two one area code,  if anything happens like a shooting or anything like that,  w-  what  they do and what I volunteer with them  is  going around.
They do calls of action.
So,  if there was a shooting at a specific spot  in the  two one area,  they go to that area, pass out flyers, two days afterwards, that's when they gather there, just to show people,  you know,  that  there's another way.
You know, they got-  I got into it  cause, you know, I was looking at  their criteria cause they look for kids, kids that's at high risk of-  of gang violence, of- of- of- uh, j- basically like street life.
You know, and  just letting them know, lay- look,  we got- there's people that support you.
There's- there's people that's here for you.
Um,  they-  they make  my view on a neighborhood  very, very different.
You know what I mean, cause it's like like I care more.
I care way more now.
And it's not just for what's happening on my street.
It's like that whole entire area.
You know, sometimes  I'm- there may be something going on, on St.
Paul,  or it may be something going on near the Conkey area or  something going on on Hudson, on Clinton.
It's- it's- i- anywhere around those areas,  uh,  we're out there,  you know,  just showing people look,  if you know somebody that's been through situations, just  tell him  or her  to call us.
You know, that's- that's all that we're saying,  and  it feels good  to know that people  will do exactly what you said.
Like,  okay, I got a prospect for you.
I'll let you know.
It may take a while, I'm not even telling 'em to rush.
I'm saying do it at your own pace.
But  it's- it's- it's very beautiful  to-  to see that side and for me to be on that  side of the fence.
I've never  done really volunteer work like that.
And on top of that I've never seen a program quite like this.
So, you know, that- it's very,  very  comforting.
I took my little kids, the little twins, I took them  to one of the- uh, one of the, uh, outreaches.
You know, and they was scared at first, cause  they- they don't like people.
They don't like interacting with people.
Too many people gets them nervous.
However, when they have flyers in they hand, and I told them, you know,  hey just- just give it to that person, yeah give it to that person.
They loved it.
You know what I'm saying?
They loved it.
And now every day is like, when we gonna pass out flyers again?
And my only answer is, I hope we don't have to.
You know what I'm saying?
That's- it's- it's deep.
It's really deep,  but yeah, that-  the- where- where I'm living at, it really- this one is really reminding me of where I used to be  on RD-ADDRESS-2 m- where I- where I was growing up.
Cause I know every one of the-  uh,  every one of the people that  my kids come across.
You know, I know their parents, I know  a little bit about them.
You know what I'm saying, so it's like it's a community base where I'm at.
And that makes it awesome.
That makes- that makes it easy  for sit- certain situations, you know.
Even if the kids fight or whatever,  you know what I'm saying.
The parents can stand right next to each other.
Oh, he hit you, hit him back.
You know,  just regular- regular stuff that helps a kid grow, you know what I'm saying?
And  it's- it's dope  that parents is on one accord  doing that.
It- it's f- it's- it's great.
It's very great, so, it's a- it's a different dynamic for me now.
I'm just looking at everything differently.
It's- it's- it's weird.
It's weird  putting all that stuff together,  but it's a eye opener  at the same time,  you know.
So I can't be afraid of weirdness.
You can't be afraid of weirdness, it's okay though.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Oh, um, well, I met her, uh, through  a job.
We both worked at the same job  for a while.
Um,  we-  I was a  artist,  and  she loves music, so at the time, she was actually,  um, trying to  manage a little group.
Um,  and  she loves music to the point where she went and bought  a-  a whole bunch of studio equipment, don't know how to work it,  don't know nothing about it.
But she purchased it, so  there can be a outlet to make music.
You know, that type of dedication.
And, um,  we would just-  you know, one day  we started talking and, you know,  I would say talking about plans.
She's a challenger.
Her name is RD-NAME-3.
She's- she's a challenger.
Um, so, you know,  She said, you need to stop playing, and you need to  start doing these shows with us.
So, I  did  w- we started doing more shows and more shows.
Um,  and it was real deep.
It was very very deep, because while we was talking,  it was like  she would allow me to  focus on my artistry, while she focused on the business part.
Cause with  most people in the music industry,  and a lot of people would say it,  when you're not able to focus solely on  the artistry,  getting into the business will make you lose  the love for the artistry,  you know.
And I was doing a lot of things in my head,  and trying to get myself out there,  mixing stuff, trying to know the business, even though you must know the business.
You know what I mean, you can't let it really like  consume  your whole outlook on how you do your music.
You know, you gotta- that has to be authentic still.
But,  we was just talking and, um,  everything just fell into line, like everything just-  just  became-  I don't know, everything happens for a reason.
After doing  countless amount of shows, like, uh, d- just back to back shows.
I would say like two thousand-  two thousand and fourteen,  I went from,  mm, people not really knowing who I am,  you know, performing at RD-WORK-5   on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street,  you know, would perform in there.
And by the end of that year,  coming into two thousand and fifteen,  I got  to the Roc Awards, and was able to perform  at the Roc Awards.
And that was with  my brother-in-law    who  RD-NAME-3 had under her roof,  you know what I'm saying, and,  uh, good friend name, uh, RD-NAME-2.
we call him RD-NAME-2.
He's a singer.
Um,  my brother-in-law, his- RD-NAME-1,  he's a singer too, but he's a rapper and a singer, it's weird.
But, yeah, they- they know this new style of music.
They- they the one that broke me into this new style of music.
Um, but  everything fell into line.
What they had going was,  it was just RD-NAME-1 and RD-NAME-2,  and RD-NAME-3 was their manager.
Um,  basically,  there was a group called RD-WORK-3,  RD-WORK-3.
Um,  and it just- it- it fit so perfectly because  what  I would say a label,  it's kind of not a label, it's more of a family,  cause it's family oriented.
Um,  my older cousin, his name is-  his  artist name is RD-NAME-1.
RD-NAME-7.
Um,  he has a older brother that passed away.
His nickname was RD-NAME-3,  but  his real name was RD-NAME-2.
So,  uh, RD-NAME-3 had a lot of-  he had kids.
You know what I'm saying, he has  a lot of things that he wanted to do before he passed.
So basically, RD-NAME-3 entertainment is to  show  family and to show  basically his kids that  there is another route,  you know what I'm saying.
And mind you, his k- his- his daughter is an extremely talented  dancer,  choreographer.
Like, she is awesome.
Awesome.
You know, so it's like having a-  trying to build a avenue where  they can do what they really feel like doing.
You know what I mean, they can do what,  you know, necessarily RD-NAME-3 didn't get to do,  you know.
And  it's weird.
When RD-NAME-3 passed,  that's when I started writing.
So that's why this is like,  really, really deep for me,  actually  saying RD-NAME-3 ENT.
That's-  that's-  that's actually my blood cousin.
On top of that,  I'm representing my family.
So,  when I got with RD-NAME-3,  and I seen what they had,  and how much talent that was,  and then we started making music together,  and that started being a whole different dynamic,  the family just got  bigger.
The family just got bigger.
So like, a lot of great things happened  because of it,  you know.
A lot of great things, like  it's- it's-  it's almost hard to speak on how many things happened just because of it.
But, it's beautiful- it was beautiful how things come together like that,  you know.
So now, yeah  it's RD-NAME-3  RD-WORK-3.
And we're under  RD-WORK-4 music.
Yep, RD-WORK-4 music, that's what-  my cousin RD-NAME-1,  that's  him and his crew,  you know.
They're- they're awesome,  all of 'em,  musically inclined,  it's weird.
And I was listening to 'em,  they been making music ever since I was like,  ten.
My  cousin is like    he's almost thirty.
Um,  when he was fifteen, that's when he started writing.
So,  yeah, that's when they really started going to  shows.
They opened up for Chris Brown, Lil Wayne, a lot of people.
And I was still young,   very young.
So  ten years later-  well, I would say five years later,  m- my cousin got me on my first song with him.
Realized my voice  and my technique,  and said, yo you need to keep doing this.
Years later,  now I really understand music,  and I understand  how different sounds  must  be used.
It's weird- it's weird, but music is a v- big science.
It's a-  it's- it's a  crazy science.
I mean, words is already a science, but  music itself, that science is like  a puzzle.
It's a big puzzle, so  they already know most of the puzzle pieces and where they supposed to go.
I'm just one piece in this puzzle too.
So,  I just fit  where-  where it's needed,  you know.
We have sessions,  listening to music,  just vibing,  create a hook, freestyle the hook.
Months later that  freestyled hook  that people almost forgot about,  once that beat comes back on, we all know that hook,  and now this a actual song.
And getting played on radios.
So, it's- it's weird.
It's weird.
It's like every-  hey.
And now my brother-in-law's in the loop too, cause he- he- he's a singer and like background vocals is needed.
I- it's weird.
It's weird.
It's very weird.
Everything happens for a reason.
It- everything-  oh my god.
It's hard to say.
It's har- it's hard to really explain it, but yeah.
It all started with RD-NAME-3.
It all started with RD-NAME-3, yeah.
Oh, everyone.
Yeah,  even the whack ones.
But, you know,  I wouldn't say they're just wack, they're just different   just   better word to say it.
They're just different, um,  like I said before, I understand music now and what music is supposed to be.
You know, even a lot of new artists  like Lil Yachty,  you know, or- or- or Lil Uzi Vert,  whoever that is.
Um,  beyond actual just having metaphors and word play,  I would say nowadays, it really doesn't matter.
It d- matters about song structure and what can get caught in a person's head, and  they are great at it.
I'm not gonna- I'm not gonna  lie about it.
They're- they're great at it.
Um,  b- I study them.
They're- they're part of my influences, you know,  cause I gotta pick apart, okay what did they do to make it-  make their song hot?
And how can I not do what they do, yet incorporate a little bit of it just to give the people what they need?
You know what I'm saying?
But as far as hardcore, oh, I got the Nases, the Kool G Raps, the Big Daddy Kanes, Rakims, KRS-One, Slick Rick,  Papoose, Saigon.
It's a whole long list, uh, Jon Connor, Cyhi the Prynce,  uh,  it's  Talib Kweli, Yasiin Bey AKA Mos Def.
Uh, it's, uh- it's a long list, Black Thought, uh, Chris Rivers, Big Pun's son.
Um,  yeah, it's a long list of people, Skyzoo, WestSide Gunn, Conway.
It's so many  artists,  you know, that  I-  I  take high consideration of.
Like, um, for instance,  I was able to-  I was able to actually like  do a little cipher  with my friend RD-NAME-2  who-  Locally I listen to a lot of people locally, like RD-NAME-2, Golden,  uh, man,  Hex,  Reaper Boys.
I-  Tru St- I.Am.Tru.Starr.
I-  I listen to a lot of people.
And uh, at my friend's album release party, he had brought Skyzoo  and he had brought uh, Chri-  Chris Rivers, Big Pun's son.
You know, I was able to  actually communicate with him.
And which was  enlightening  cause,  especially with s-  talking to Skyzoo, cause it's like-  and I'm seeing him  coming from Brooklyn  to Rochester  just to perform.
You know what I'm saying, handling his business, still talking like he has to.
And, you know, he knows that some people didn't get to perform, cause a lot of things happened that night.
Uh,  me and my team was one of the people that couldn't perform,  however,  when-  when I was told that Skyzoo, Skyzoo cut ten minutes off of his actual thirty minute set  just so people can have a cipher.
And it was  him there, it was Westside Gunn, Conway,  Chris Rivers  all still there  watching  local talent,  just  kill verses.
You know what I mean, like  I did a verse,  and as soon as I got off the microphone,  like  I just see  a row of rap geniuses salute me.
That is amazing.
You know what I'm saying, that's what I- that's what I live for.
I want-  I want to-  I want to be able to  spark  something in somebody else's head,  to make them want to write again.
You know,  like, uh, recently, I did a song with, uh,  RD-NAME-4.
And, you know,  it's pretty deep, because RD-NAME-2  he was actually around me when I was a kid.
You know,  h- h-  him and my aunty.
Cool peoples.
You know, they grew up together.
So,  from him to see me  in a car seat  to like, twenty-four, twenty-five years later,  being in his studio  saying words that makes him want to rap again.
That is awesome.
You know what I'm saying, that's- that's what I want to do.
So I just-  that- and that's a legend in my eyes,  you know what I'm saying.
So it's like, I just wanna be able to  influence  anybody, new people  or people that's been doing this for years, cause  they influence me.
If I can give that influence back,  then,  it's all going in a three sixty.
We can all  work with each other after that.
You know, everything is reciprocated.
So  that's what-  that's- that's my-  that's my i-  those is my influences,  and that's where I want my influences  to be at.
I wanna be able to- I want to get to that point where fina- you know, where  fans is calling,  a little chat line saying, oh my god, RD-NAME-5, you're awesome.
Your words changed my life.
I want to- I want to get to that point,  you know what I'm saying.
But,  I don't want- I want respect first.
I don't want no fame.
I don't like- I don't like famous.
You know, famous is- that's a beast.
Even though  when you're-  when you're attacking the profession  and you really grind hard to do what you do,  sometimes spotlight will come.
And I'm not  hide that.
If the spotlight do come to me,  I will handle it accordingly.
But I just want respect.
And just, some people like lyrics still.
Some people like lyrics still, so, you know, I wanna-  I wanna meet the people halfway,  give 'em something bouncy.
I just realized myself, I'm too deep.
That was one of the reasons why I had made a name change.
Cause I-  technically speaking,  the average listener  has issues with attention.
So, a attention span  of   average person is less than thirty seconds.
Right?
If you don't do something that you have  to catch them,  they're going to press the skip button.
Some people don't like to be  tooken to a deep place  all the time.
I get it,  okay.
So now,  I'm tryna incorporate this fun style  with saying little bit of messages  that you don't unders- that you don't get  yet.
Until you actually go through the lyrics in your head, and it's like, woah, he really said that.
It didn't sound like he meant like that way.
But,  oh, wow, that was very knowledgeable.
How did he do that on a party record?
You know,  things like that,  like I want to be kind of like how-  how-  Chance the Rapper and  Kendrick Lamar and J.
Cole, how  they present  their messages.
Like songs like Love Yours,  the deepest song in the world,  because those words are true.
There's no such thing as a life that's better than yours.
You won't be happy until you love what you got.
Because there's always gonna be something greater.
There's gonna be a house bigger than yours.
There's always gonna be a woman that's badder than the one you got.
It's always gonna be  somebody with more money than you.
However,  none of that matters  if you are happy where you're at.
You know,  that's-  oh my god.
He just made it super catchy.
You know what I'm saying?
And that resonated with people.
That's the type of thing I wanna do.
I wanna do that.
That is awesome.
Chance the Rapper saying I have angels.
Whew.
That's it.
That's it.
I got angels.
That' it.
You know what I'm saying, like that is-  oh, that- d-  I could talk about music all day,  so it's like,  yeah, that's what the type of influence I want.
That's the type of impact that I want.
You know what I'm saying, that's what- that's what I want people to see me as, see me as a voice.
You know, the voice of the voiceless, so I can speak for those,  you know,  that  are unable to,  or that's too afraid to  or  that has  the ability to speak to people, yet they're a little scared,  you know what I'm saying?
If I can just  speak for them  I may be able  to push someone  enough to for they can follow they dream the way they need to.
That's all I want.
Everybody need to follow they dreams.
It's- it's- it's about- it's about  doing what you love to do,  not doing something  that'll just get you by.
Uh, yeah that's it.
That's it.
That's all.
I'm-  I'm a knowledgeable person,  you know.
I get all deep and whatnot.
You know,  I can have a whole conversation about the sky being red,  and by the end of the conversation, I can almost convince you that the sky is red,   you know.
But that's just it.
That's just it.
I just like-  I like- I-  now I like-  I study  so much to the point where  I don't even study the music no more.
Life is music now.
It's like  technically speaking,  driving here,  looking at how people interact with each other,  being at a stoplight hearing conversations  that's happening  at a corner store or whatever,  you know what I'm saying?
Or going- going into a store,  you know what I mean, and just walking by hearing how  one person acts  towards another person or how, uh, this child acts towards their mother.
You know,  or how these two kids playing when they around each other.
Like I have to put all of that in perspective  because  there's gonna be one day  that I'm gonna have to explain  that,  you know?
Explain  what-  Like,  perfect example, if I wanted to make a song about the neighborhood  and what the neighborhood should be,  I'm gonna use references on how I grew up,  you know what I'm saying?
I'm gonna  okay,  make a metaphor about playing curve ball.
Or make a metaphor about playing freeze tag.
Or make a metaphor  about  two different streets coming to one playground just to play football.
You know, things like that.
Like that's  what's gonna  capture people.
That's the thing that's like-  that's relatable.
If it's relatable,  and if it can touch they heart,  then it's meant to stay in they heart.
It's meant to stay in they heart,  you know.
Oh that's cool.
I was looking at that the whole time.
I did not- That is awesome.
I was just staring at that map layout.
But yeah.
Oh yeah let's do it.
Um, my favorite parts of this place, um,  I go to a lot of,  uh-  let's just say,  um,  a lot of festivals, a lot of  things that uplift the kids, you know, or uplift people, or help black businesses or    people that's just trying to get their foot in the door,  you know, of what their dream is.
You know,  places like that, like-  like Juneteenth  is awesome.
Or- or let's just say, um,  how can I put it?
Like poetry events.
Um, you know, my auntie is a poet, my  mother is a poet.
Um,  so it's like  I go to those events.
To me, I'm a poet.
I just speak in rap form too much.
Um, but  that's one place that I can go to  to breathe.
I call it breathing.
Cause I don't have to care  about being too deep.
You know, I can- I know  what I will say will resonate with somebody  in this atmosphere.
And that's what I like,  I like good vibes.
Good vibes is awesome.
So I want  I- I always like to  put myself in,  uh, places where  people matter and people matters to people.
You know,  that- that's- that's where-  that's where-  I would say that's where my heart lies in Rochester.
Cause to me that's making Rochester better.
That's making Rochester more  like this,  instead of divided into sections.
Mm-hm.
Support.
And I'm saying that from a artist's standpoint.
Um, you know,  uh,  a lot of Rochester are followers.
Rochesterians, they just-  a lot of them lead, but  most  of  the people that  don't lead, they just blindly follow.
Now  I understand half of it, especially from a artist's standpoint.
You know, people will wanna see a artist  go out there  and get  what they need,  and once they go- once the people see that they're going out to get it,  oh okay he's on his grind.
Okay I can like his stuff now.
You know, I understand that point.
But, you know,  with Rochester it's almost like,  um,  you know, they'll su-  they'll support others  very fast,  you know.
I mean,  I know some people that would go and buy a Lil Wayne album before they go and buy a local album  from someone in their town,  you know.
And that's one of the things that I wish  could change.
Like, the mindset of Rochester, just that following mindset instead of leading by example.
You know, like now,  it's getting to the point where radio is actually playing local artists more.
DKX, uh, WAYO Radio,  um,  uh, one double O nine,  like  they're-  point nine, they are  all playing local talent now.
You know, and that's what's-  that's what's helping Rochester out a little bit more.
Okay, now  local  acts are being heard  by the people that  can't- that- that can listen  willingly now.
Now it's to the point where  getting 'em to come to these shows,  you know, instead of focusing on the next Gucci concert or the next Jeezy concert.
And get  those same people  to come to a local event,  you know, and support  the people that's trying to get on that level of the Fabolouses and the  young Jeezys and the Gucci Manes,  or- You know what I mean, we're all trying to make it to that-  to that spot.
You know, and it's just-  But  I guess it's like that with every other-  every other town.
A lot of artists  in a lot of towns don't get the respect from their town until they get respect from other ones.
So I ca- I get it a little bit, but  I just want the support factor to be there again.
You know,  and,  with the kickball things that's happening right now,  that is also helping  the community cause it's- you know, it used to be like a east side west side type of war for some reason,  and it's been going on ever since my dad was a kid.
So,  to see  people from each side  coming together  to do something  which is also fun,  it's positive  because there's no drama happening.
They're all  cordial.
And, you know,  yes, it's super competitive and  okay,  but past that,  everybody is having fun.
You know what I mean, that's-  to me that's support right there.
That's the epitome of what support supposed to be.
So,  that's-  you know,  I see we're working on it.
We're- Rochester is working on getting  that  one weakness as strength.
Uh, very much so.
Very much so.
Um,  at first, uh, growing up I didn't think so.
Um,  however, um,  once I got towards like, uh,  colleges and  looking at what actually Rochester delivers as far as events wise, and, uh,  uh, opportunities that's given,  um,  I realized Rochester  is really big.
I mean, it's a small city, but we're really huge.
Like, um,  how can I say it?
For example,  it's almost like  I never knew  how  big RD-SCHOOL-3 was  until the second year I went there.
And then realized they're like number one in the country,  and people come  from different places just to go there.
The same for the U of R and the same for RIT.
You know what I'm saying,  there's so many  different people.
I met somebody Hawaiian.
I never thought I would meet somebody Hawaiian without going to Hawaii,  you know what I'm saying.
But they came here.
So  yeah, this is a very very very diversed-  diverse city.
You know,  d- various nationalities, and every one  is cordial with one another, that's the thing.
There's-  there is not-  um,  it's very diverse,  and it's undivided.
I can say that.
It's diverse yet undivided.
Cause  people is going out of their comfort zones,  and they're making these interactions with people that  they never thought they would.
But yet after making those interactions they're closer  with that person.
You know, so  it's- it's- it's a great thing.
It's a great thing, and then knowing different cultures and different people's lives and how  they operate, what's important to them, what's priorities,  it helps you align your own,  you know.
So it's- it's-  the diversity is awesome.
I like it.
I like it.
Okay.
Okay.
Oh yes, yes.
Um,  okay, yes, yes.
I'm'a- I'm'a break it down.
I'm'a break it down.
I'm'a break it down.
So,  let's just say  remember, I had went to RD-SCHOOL-7 University, right, school down south.
This is when I first learned what  Geechee meant.
So, when I went down there,  I told people I was from Rochester, New York,  however when I talk they said that  I don't have  a strong accent.
Like I don't have a New York accent,  but I speak in a New York way.
It was weird.
Um,  you know,  then after being there- down there for a semester and then coming back up to Rochester,  um, you know, it was certain  things that was picked up, certain words and everything.
Um,  and then when I came back  here, that's  when people said I sound Geechee.
I mean, Geechee  is like, basically like-  um,  like a Southern accent,  um,  and which  a lot of us in Rochester already  sound  quote unquote Geechee.
Because a lot of us was raised by folks that  lived down south.
Like, like I said, my grandmother  that lives on RD-ADDRESS-2, she  lived down south.
She was born and raised down south.
Yet,  she started her new family up here.
You know, on my mom's side, my g-  my great-grandparents,  they were from Mississippi.
Yet they came up here,  you know what I'm saying.
And  a lot of their mannerisms is the same,  you know.
One of the things that my grandfather always said, you know, it was beautiful.
You know, just d- that way,  uh, just that way, you know what I'm saying.
So like,  everybody- a lot of people in Rochester  were raised by  those that were down south.
So Rochesterians, we have  a mix of  upstate  lingo with  a little bit of down south  words,  or- or way that we say things.
Um,  and that's the- that's-  to me, that's what-  that's what s-  Geechee is to me.
Cause I ain't get it when I first heard it, and I'm like how do I sound Geechee?
Like, you sound like you from down south now.
what you- what you doing down there?
Like, oh.
I don't know, I still sound like I'm from Rochester, New York to me, but okay,  I guess.
No, pe- yeah, when I came back from North Carolina, Rochesterians was telling that- saying that about me.
Yet when I came back to North Carolina from Rochester,  North Carolina people was telling me I was Geechee now.
I don't get it.
But it's okay, yeah it's alright, you know.
Everybody has different-  I would say different, uh,  phrases, different things that they say,  you know.
Uh, when I was living in California, I realized  California, they just had a elevated slang  of New York.
You know, if somebody say they wanted to punch somebody, New York people will say, I'll sneak you,  like a sneaker.
You know, Cali people say, I sock you.
A sneaker and a sock, okay,  so,  you know what I mean, so it's a- Yeah, yeah it's- it's- it's- it's- I mean, you n-  you need- you need a sock to fit  sneaker, so, I mean, I understand it.
You know, not everybody has their elevated slang,  so,  you know.
Hey  screw it.
I guess.
I guess.
I ca- I can be Geechee.
I sound New York when I rap, but I can be Geechee.
Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm, I sound New York when I rap.
So,  you know, their meeting meeting  the new age halfway I can pull out some Geechee stuff.
Let's just saying that that'll get them entertained.
Yeah, so,  mm,  hm.
A lot of people I've met as well  that have  southern slang,  I mean,  especially on my dad's side.
All of the older people there,  that- that- that you can hear  Mississippi in their voice.
You can hear it.
The way they talk,  I mean, they may talk fast or  words may be s-  s- words may sound connected to each other when they not,  or-   or they just, you know, got a slight mumble with it.
It- it's- it's weird.
It's different ways-  it's different ways people are Geechee.
But, you know,  it's just all how people talk,  how- how people enunciate they words and everything,  you know.
It's a- it's a different bracket.
I mean, I guess can pretend Geechee too.
So,   it's- it'll work out.
It'll work out.
But yeah, that's what people-  I guess that's what people think about, uh,    those that  speak  like they're from down south, but they was raised up here.
It's the Geechee.
It's like you're trying to be like them.
No, no.
This is who I was  the whole time.
Yeah, mm, so.
Mm, okay.
Okay.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do that.
Do that.
Yes.
Alright.
Hey, hold on.