And  I lived with my  grandmother  Was my mother's mother.
And  we lived in a house that was owned by our family.
My grandmother owned half of the house,  and  her sister owned the other half.
And it was what they call- now they call it a shotgun house  where all the rooms-  you could stand in one room and see all the way out the back door.
And they had a long hallway.
And, um,    I lived  with my grandmother, and  my mother had come  to Rochester.
At the time I was too young to understand why,  but, um,  my mo- my-  I owe my grandmother  so much because  I was an infant  when my mother left.
And  we had these old timey stoves.
I don't know if you've ever seen one.
You ever been to Genesee Country Museum?
They got those old black wrought iron stoves, and you use this thing to put on the hole and that would take the top off,  and they make a fire underneath.
And my grandmother had to do that like the middle of the night  and boil potatoes and mash 'em  to feed me.
So I'm really dedicated  to her  for doing all she did for me.
And  my mother  kept in touch  with my grandmother,  but I didn't know that.
I was  tiny baby.
And she'd send money.
And  I often-  as I got older I wondered, how did we survive?
Cause  my grandmother used to just pick peaches,  and that was in season,  you know, and she didn't have any other job.
She picked peaches,  and  I had to stay home.
And sometimes, as I got,  you know, more comfortable  with her working,  she would let me go to the movie,  but  it used to be  I had chores.
I had to make the bed,  and I had to feed the biddies.
You know what biddies?
They're little baby chickens.
They call 'em biddies.
And that  was my two jobs.
So  when she would come home,  and she'd go in the-  and then she'd go here,  and then she'd t- come to me, and she said, go get the switch.
And I couldn't understand, how does she know  I didn't do my chores?
I made the bed,  but I didn't make the bed.
I spread the cover over it,  and  I didn't feed the biddies at all.
And that's cause kids would  tease me and scare me,  so I would get out of the house as-  as soon as I could.
And I'd get a whipping.
One- finally I think she was tired of whipping  me.
So- was getting-   she was getting tired of it.
So she t- s-  told me to come out  to the coop  and she showed me  she had  a pan on top of the coop, and she had a piece of glass on top of it.
If I had watered the biddies,  the glass  would have fell off the pan.
So she didn't whip me, she said, because I didn't feed the biddies.
She whipped cause I lied  and said I fed 'em.
So as the years went by,  my mother came to town.
She used to send me  packages, you know, but  she came to town one time like at night,  And then she left just as quick as she came.
And that was my first time  knowing my mother, and I was a little girl.
I still remember.
It's come to find out that, um,    my dad  or my father- well I don't know what to call him now.
He  and my mother-  uh, he's my father,  and to this day, I don't know if it was consensual,  or if he took advantage of her.
And being the richest boy in town, you know, it's-  his dad owned the movie theaters.
There were two.
He owned the movie theaters.
He owned the hotel.
He owned a grocery store and  something else.
I don't know.
He had a lot of influence in the town.
And  the story is that  my mom had to leave  town in a hurry once I was born.
And a friend of my m-  family lives on RD-ADDRESS-1 Street,  Miss RD-NAME-2.
And I-  when my father died,  I w-  asked Miss RD-NAME-2  did- was my fa- did she know my father.
And she said, girl, yeah.
She said, everybody know your father.
I said, who was he?
And she said,  that was RD-NAME-4 boy,  you know, like that.
And I said,  okay,  cause  that wasn't my father's last name, RD-NAME-3.
And I said, is that  t-  is that true, RD-NAME-2?
She said,  yeah.
She said, everybody know.
They was talking- you was the talk of the town.
RD-NAME-3 done got her a white baby.
And- uh, but she said, RD-NAME-3 had to leave town  after you was born.
She said, she left in a wagon.
They throw the tarp over,  and she left in the middle of the night.
And she couldn't come back cause they woulda killed her  for messing with that white boy.
So I said, well what if she wasn't messing with him?
He was messing with her.
She said, didn't matter.
She had to get out of town.
So those are the things that the family kept from me.
And    so  I often wonder,  how did they  meet up here?
Cause I worked  at the library at the RD-WORK-6.
And  this  kid used to come in there all the time, and he was really really  out of it.
It was psychiatric, so, you know, he had some  problems.
So he would come in, and  he'd always leave me a message  by the title of a book.
He'd have messages  titled like-  I can't even think of any now.
But the  titles, if you put 'em all together, it was a message.
So it was kind of scary.
I was very nervous,  but  I didn't let him know that.
And I didn't run from him or anything like that.
So one day he was- um,  he was reading  in the library, and, um,  he used to read the Who's Who.
So he said, RD-NAME-1, come here.
So I went over, and he said,  this is my dad  or father, whatever he said.
I said, oh,  RD-ADDRESS-4 Georgia, I said, that's where I'm from.
He said, really?
I said, yeah.
I said, I knew some RD-NAME-3.
I said, you must, uh, be the RD-NAME-3  from RD-ADDRESS-4.
I said, you know RD-NAME-4?
He said, it was my grandfather.
I said, really?
And he said, yeah.
I said, oh, I knew them.
I knew.
your family, and like that.
So the very next day-  well actually  his father,  it was a professor at the U of R.
He was-  he was a professor of economics  at the U of R.
But he'd never visit RD-NAME-1  beca-  his name was RD-NAME-2, but  everybody called him RD-NAME-1,  the son.
So  f-  RD-NAME-1 would go up  to the U of R.
Every time he get a honor card that he could leave the grounds,  he'd go to the U of R.
And he'd smash all the windows in his father's car,  or he'd spray paint 'em,  but security wouldn't,  and the father wouldn't press charges.
So they would bring him back  to the RD-WORK-6.
He'd lose his privilege,  then when he earned the honor card,  he'd go and do the same thing.
His father would  visit him,  but he stopped  because RD-NAME-1 would become violent  on the ward he was staying on.
So he stopped visiting him,  but his mother would visit him.
And he got along pretty good with his mother, but he did have a temper.
But he never  displayed the temper with me.
So  the day after  he was reading the Who's Who,  and his father  was in it,  and,  you know, I'd say, I know  the f- the RD-NAME-3.
The very next day,  his father came  who n-  had stopped visiting years before.
He came,  and h-  his wife came with him.
He introduced hisself,  told me where he was from.
And  I shook his hand, and I was glad to meet him.
H- well, uh,  I think we  chatted a little bit,  and soon after that  he would call, and-  or his wife would call, and they would invite me  out for lunch.
And it was to thank me for  being nice to  their son.
So we'd always go  to, uh, Phillips European.
You ever go there?
Ooh, I love that place.
I- one time I dropped the, um,   torte,  raspberry torte.
I dropped it, and I  picked it up, and I ate it.
That's how good they were.
So we would go there,  and we would eat,  and he would go back to work.
His wife was RD-NAME-1.
She'd go wherever she go.
And I would go back to work.
And, um,    so, uh, not too long  after  he came there  to meet me,  he brought his daughter  who lived in Boston.
Her name is RD-NAME-1.
So he introduced RD-NAME-1  to RD-NAME-1.
She was glad to meet me.
And, um,  we-  she and I, we never went anywhere.
She was just here visiting, but  he brought her there to meet me.
And  al- I always thought that  he told his wife about me,  but he didn't tell anybody else until I met RD-NAME-1.
And I'm thinking, maybe he told  RD-NAME-1  because he was too proud to tell me  cause  he's from the old days in the South.
You didn't mingle like that.
And I think  it woulda been embarrassment to him  for anybody to know  that I was his ch-  his child.
So  I never said anything,  but all my life  I had been told he was my father.
But my mother, she would never talk about it.
I don't where I left off now.
Oh, he woulda been embarrassed I think  cause in the old days you didn't-  I s- like I said, I don't know if it was consensual.
They was  going behind the bend somewhere,  or if he was forcing hisself and she was scared cause they had so much influence down there.
So, um,    uh,  I would tell my mother  every time I see him  or I- he'd call me  or he'd send me a note.
Like-  and my mother would get  very upset, and she would drink.
She would get drunk like for days.
And I think it was  bad memories for her,  so I stopped telling her.
Whenever I would  meet them for lunch or  go to the house, I would never,  um, tell my mother  because I didn't wanna hurt her like that.
I didn't know the story, so it was no reason to  keep bringing it up to her.
So, um,  when I was  ten,  my mother- uh, oh, and I went all over the town,  you know, nobody bothered me.
Like, my grandmother picked peaches in season,  and we didn't have babysitters.
So after I'd  do my-  I so-called did my chores,  I go to the movie which  was owned by the  RD-NAME-3.
And  I c-  I couldn't sit upstairs.
I had to sit downstairs  where the white people sit.
That was what he insisted, the father.
RD-NAME-1 RD-NAME-4 they called him.
So I would sit downstairs  with the white people.
And these were weekdays,  so I think it mighta been  to protect me  that he had me sit downstairs and watch the movies.
If I was sitting upstairs, there's nobody watching me.
S- and I think he also  supported my grandmother and me  cause we had everything we needed.
She couldn't-  she couldn't support us  just picking peaches  whenever the peach season was, summer I guess.
And-  and I-  I wore shoes.
I had shoes.
And I wore corduroys, you know, I done had  sweater.
I had nice things, so I know  the money was coming from somewhere.
And my mother would send a box now and then, but it was mostly goodies.
It wasn't clothes or anything.
She didn't know how big I was or whatever.
So,  um,  when I was ten  my grandmother-  my mother  and my grandmother, they musta been writing letters or something.
I don't think they had  telephones.
I know we didn't.
So they probably had,  uh,  communication by letter.
And my mother ca- showed up to bring me here.
And my grandmother was very upset,  and she moved to Florida with her sister.
Left my mother and me there with the pigs and the chickens and  all the vegetables, everything, the eggs,  the whole house,  well, our half, everything.
So  I ate so many  chick-  I ate chicken cooked so many ways.
I got so tired of chicken.
I remember my  g- s- excuse me.
Oh yeah, all kind of chicken.
And we couldn't give 'em away cause people had they own chickens, eggs too, vegetables.
And, uh,  so my mother gave me  probably a nickel or a dime or something- dime probably,    and I had to go  to the cafe  and get a burger,  but  I don't think they called 'em that back then.
I don't know what they called 'em.
And a-  and a  Coca-Cola.
And that's what I would eat, and she let me do that until we  came up here.
And I didn't get tired of 'em like I got tired of that chicken.
So we came up here,    and  we lived, um,  in a house  on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
I forgot.
I-  I think it was  RD-ADDRESS-2  or RD-ADDRESS-2.
Anyway, um,  we was  I w-  I got a-  um,    um,  she got a knock on the door once, and she opened the door, and it was my grandmother.
My grandmother had left Florida,  come up here  and got a  place to stay  and came and took me back  with her.
And we lived on  RD-ADDRESS-2 Street off RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
I don't know if you familiar with that.
Mm-mm.
You know where, um,  it's church on RD-ADDRESS-2 at RD-ADDRESS-3?
Okay, that's RD-ADDRESS-2 S-  RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
Um,  RD-ADDRESS-2 Street was off  RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
So that's where we lived,  and we stayed there-  uh, I was thirteen,  and we stayed-  no I was ten  cause I came up here, and my grandmother,  she couldn't handle that,  so she came right behind us.
But she was prepared.
She had a place for me to stay.
So I stayed with my grandmother  until I was thirteen.
So when we first got up- when I f-  when she first got here  and-  to take me to school,  it was Number RD-SCHOOL-1 School on RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue.
It's on RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue now.
But the r-  original was on RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue.
So  I was go to f-  fifth grade,  and they said I couldn't,  uh,  cause I was coming from the South.
And she said,  she going to fifth grade.
I don't know exact words.
She mighta cussed.
I don't know.
But, um,  they insisted that I couldn't go to fifth grade  cause  I was coming from the South.
So my grandmother said,  you gonna have to test her  because she going to the fifth grade.
Now you can test her,  but she going to fifth grade.
And so they tested me,  and they said,  oh,  she can't go to fifth grade.
She has to go to sixth grade.
My grandmother said, uh-uh, she going to fifth grade.
She's not skipping, and she's not staying back.
She going to fifth grade.
So  I said, okay.
I mean, she said okay.
So I went to Number RD-SCHOOL-1 School in the fifth grade.
That's where I met my husband.
The first day,  uh, some-  somebody  told him a new girl was in town, and  he came right to the house on that raggedy bicycle, no fenders.
Is that what you call them  things on the-  over the wheels?
And  we was together all the time until he came out of the army, and then we got married.
But, um,    uh,  my teacher then was Miss RD-NAME-3,  and she had us for fifth grade and sixth grade  and seventh grade.
Sh-  she would not  let us go.
And when we graduated from Number RD-SCHOOL-1 School,  she stopped teaching.
She said she'd never teach another class.
She loved us so much.
So she, um,    became a principal  at another school  until she retired.
So  that's how I got here.
Now  I have to look at my notes.
And this is Miss RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-2.
No, that's Miss RD-NAME-1.
This Miss RD-NAME-3 right there.
And you know what?
She lived up here on West RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
You know where the little plaza  on the fish market?
Right past RD-ADDRESS-3 Avenue  this big  beautiful brick house,  and it used to be a church next door, but they tore the church down.
That's where she lived with her brother all those years.
So,  um,  let's see.
Oh, and we got-  I met my husband,  and, um,  I got- I told you all that.
We had three children.
Two of living-  two are still living.
My daughter is-  RD-NAME-2 is fifty-seven.
My son RD-NAME-2, he's fifty-four.
And I went to Number RD-SCHOOL-1 School.
I said all that.
And when I l- graduated  from Number RD-SCHOOL-1  after seventh grade,  I went on to RD-SCHOOL-4.
That's where you used to go.
It's now the RD-SCHOOL-5 School.
And when we finished eighth grade at the RD-SCHOOL-2,  we'd go to the  high school  which was on RD-ADDRESS-4 Street.
But now it's on  RD-ADDRESS-1 and RD-ADDRESS-2.
And- um,  and we had to go-  in Number RD-SCHOOL-1 School,  you all we- y-  everybody had to go home for lunch.
There was no  cafeteria.
There was no free lunch.
You didn't take a lunch.
You went home.
You got out of the school.
And it didn't matter where you lived,  you still had to go.
So  most of the time, in the beginning,  when I'd come back to school,  school was about over cause  I would go the wrong way.
I wasn't familiar  with the city, you know.
So instead of me coming out the school and going right,  I would come out  go left  cause I probably was coming out a different door.
I don't remember.
My mother  had a restaurant inside of the RD-WORK-6,  so I had to go there for lunch  which was  like  a block or two from the school, but I could never find it.
That's cause I was going the wrong way.
This old country girl, you know, streets with cars on 'em and everything.
So,  uh,  we-  we would  go home for lunch  and  come back to school.
We'd hang out, not hang out,  but if- if we- if I was good, my mother would let me stay on the playground  and play  on the playground with the other kids.
So,    uh,  if we got into tr- I got in trouble  because  coming back too late,  but I finally got a grip  o- once they told my mother.
My mother had to come to school and straighten it out.
So  and you didn't have a choice of where you go to high school.
If you lived  on the-  I'd had to draw it at work.
If you lived on the north side of the school,  you went to Franklin.
If you lived on the south side of the school,  you went to East.
And if you was  a boy,  you had a choice  of going to,  um,  the school  on whatever side of the building,  or you could go to  Edison Tech  or Paul Revere  Trade Schools.
They used to be on Clifford Avenue near Joseph Avenue,  big-  took the whole block from  Hudson Avenue  to- um,  I don't remember the name of the street, but it's a street  before you get to Joseph Avenue.
It was a huge school, and it was all boys.
So they w-  their boys  like  that-  they may not have been able to  teach them  to grade level.
I don't know.
But  that was the choices they had.
You either go to  Edison,  or you go to Paul Revere.
My cousin went to Paul Revere, and he learned tailoring,  and a lot of 'em did.
They took up tailoring.
They didn't have computers back then, and I often wonder, why did they call that Edison Technical?
What technical stuff did we have back then, you know?
So maybe- maybe I got the name wrong.
Maybe they just been calling it that in the last forty years or so.
I don't know.
But that was  what you did.
And you walked.
There was no school buses.
You get up, and you get to school.
I lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
You know where  RD-ADDRESS-4?
I lived  like  w-  cross the street there where the RD-ADDRESS-4  plant is,  and I had to walk to RD-SCHOOL-1 High School  on  RD-ADDRESS-4 and RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
And that was a long walk.
But you had to do it, and you didn't think anything of it.
You just did it  cause that's all we knew.
And parents didn't drive us.
We didn't have school buses.
Who could afford  bus e-  bus fare.
And  I don't even know if-  I don't even know about bus- I think that never came up.
I don't think it ever came up.
You just got up and got ready for school, and you left home and went to school.
And  I had a friend RD-NAME-1.
RD-NAME-1 and I were friends from  fifth grade.
She has  Alzheimer's now, but she remembers me.
And she remembers that I gave her her books  when she came to the classroom.
I was the one that  gave her all her books.
She can remember that.
So RD-NAME-1 and I, we walked to school  in high school.
But she dropped out cause she got  pregnant  which was unheard of back then.
But,  um,  we're still friends.
She-  she recognized me a little bit, but  I go up take her to  get her nails done or s-  take her for lunch, something like that.
She- she recognize me, but I have to refresh her sometime.
But she looks good.
And she was born  the seventeenth of February,  and I was born the twenty-sixth.
So  we were like sisters.
We'd stay at her house, or we'd stay at my house.
And that's the way we grew up,  so we grew up like sisters.
I talk a lot.
You have to excuse me.
But you have to excuse me.
Oh, and, uh, I remember that  I wanted a pair of heels,  and my  mother wouldn't  allow that.
I couldn't have-  by this time my grandmother had died,  so I had to live with my mother.
She  didn't want me to wear heels,  and  Neisner's used to sell shoes and stuff, you know.
And the heels I wanted was wedge.
Oh boy, I wanted them shoes so bad.
Now  I wasn't gonna show you which one is me.
I was gonna let you guess.
And my friend RD-NAME-1 got the wedge shoes, but I couldn't.
And I had to wear  socks,  and RD-NAME-1 wearing  stockings,  and I'm wearing socks, you know.
S-  sorry about that.
I'm kind of clumsy sometime.
So somebody gave me a pair of  shoes, and it had a heel on it.
Now the heel was probably not one inch,  you know.
It's just i- probably a little shoe like that.
If-  if it was that high.
And I would  take that-  take them shoes to school with me,  and change 'em on my way there.
But by the time I get to school, my feet was hurting so bad,  I'd take the shoes off.
I think I finally gave 'em to somebody.
I thought,  my mother was right.
I wasn't ready for  heels.
And they weren't even heels.
They probably about this high.
I don't know.
So  and like I say,  um,  we didn't have babysitters.
We did what our parents told us to do.
And with my mother,  I either had to stay in the house-  and she did day work.
She got five dollars a day in bus fare.
I remember our rent was  twenty dollars a month.
Isn't that something?
Twenty dollars a month.
We had a two bedroom apartment too.
And back then it wasn't a lot of single houses.
White people had  all the single houses.
And we lived  in apartment houses  or up over stores.
So  they didn't have,  uh, projects  and,  uh,  townhouses and  apartment buildings and stuff.
They didn't have all that back then.
S-  That wasn't built.
That wasn't built.
And they had the reunion last Sunday, and I missed it.
I missed the Hanover  picnic last Sunday.
That woulda been such a thrill to be there, and I missed it.
I went to a-  a cookout some,  uh,    fam- you know the RD-NAME-2?
They go to Mount Vernon.
Oh, they w- had a big cookout honoring their mother's death.
And it's been two years,  and they- um,  they invited just about everybody they knew.
So,  um,    but  sometimes  with no babysitter, I guess my mother would l-  feel sorry for me,  and I could go to what they call the Lutheran intermission.
And it was over on Clinton Avenue.
It was a long walk  cause you had to go,  um,  through downtown,  and  it was just a long walk.
But  like I say, we did it.
We walked.
We didn't know anything different.
It didn't matter how long it took us  to get there or to get back home.
We walked.
Let me tell you a funny story about the first time  I went over there.
I had to cross,  um,  downtown where the Water Street  Grill.
I can't think of the name of that street,  but there's a bridge there.
Is it  Cumberland Street?
I don't know.
It might be Water Street.
I don't know what the name of it is.
Okay.
There was a bridge crossing the river.
The first time  I went there,  I was scared to death.
I could not  walk  over that bridge.
I had never  been on a bridge, and I crawled.
And the kids laughed at me,  and I cried all the way cross that bridge.
And when the-  when I got to the mission  and it was time to come back,  I cried all the way  cross that bridge again.
And my mother  went with me- no, my uncle,  my mother's brother,  he went with me the next time.
And he held my hand, and he walked me cross that bridge  And from then on,  one of the friends that I walk with  would hold my hand,  and after a while I got used to it.
And I was able to go.
So that was my funny story.
But at the mission, um,  they taught us, um,  about the bible.
We had  what they call religious instruction.
It was two words  I was not familiar with,  religious instruction.
So we got religious instruction.
We got a meal,  and we could either go in they gym,  the boys usually did that,  or we could do crafty things.
I think it was like  boondoggle or something.
I don't know what it was back then, but  that's usually what the girls did.
And when it was time to go home,  we'd take that long walk back  cause we s- like I said, we lived over on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
And we were walking from  past downtown, you know.
But we did it.
And, um,  when I got a little older,  I could stay out til the street lights came on,  and I could  sit outside on the curb,  uh,  and there was a bakery called Stein's Bakery.
And  we would sit out there,  and then sometimes the bakers would call us  inside,  and they would let us watch them  cook  what they call  fry cakes.
And  I say doughnuts, but they said fry cakes.
It was a big huge  huge  stove or whatever.
And it was full of grease.
The grease was just  popping and bubbling.
And the man had a long stick,  and he would turn it-  he'd turn those  fry cakes over like a-  a m-  he was a master.
And  he'd s-  take the stick, and he'd go through 'em when they were done,  put 'em in a bag, and he'd give us a bag.
Each one of us would get a bag.
It was so much grease on them bags.
But we would  eat 'em.
We'd take them home,  and we'd eat 'em.
And we would sit out there all the time hoping this would be the night they'd call us in again.
So we enjoyed the little greasy fry cakes as they called 'em.
We call them doughnuts now.
I think some people probably call them fry cakes, don't they?
You've heard that term, haven't you?
Yeah.
So and then years later,  um,  I could go to Baden Street Settlement,  but now I don't remember how old I was.
But  I had to d- of course I had to be home at a certain time.
And then they used to have dance contests there.
I never learned how to dance,  but I love  watching them dance.
Oh, that was just the joy.
And they had,  um,  other activities too, but  the most popular was the basketball games in the gym.
And the  boys would have names for they team,  but the most popular names was  the Whiz Kids.
And my husband was a member of the Whiz kids,  and they were the older boys.
Then they had another  like  intermediate age I guess.
They were the Gaylords,  and  the Gaylords,  I think it might be a few of them still around  cause they were younger than me.
But the Whiz Kids,  I think they're all gone except one,  RD-NAME-4 who still has his good mind.
He lives on RD-ADDRESS-3 Road.
So I-  I wave at him him every time I go over there cause he sits on his porch  when he's not at the barber shop somewhere.
He likes to go to the barber shop and  chew the rag he call it, you know.
He used to be on  Jefferson all the time.
It got a little too violent for him, so  I don't know what barber shop he go to now, but  that's what he likes to do.
He was one of the Whiz kids.
He wasn't tall.
He was short,  but he could play basketball.
So maybe next time you have a proje- well you won't do the same project again, will you?
Oh, okay.
Well, I'll s-  I could make sure you,  uh, meet RD-NAME-2.
Uh,  besides Baden Street,  I could go to,  um,   St.
Simon's Church  on Oregon Street.
And the church is still there.
It was a Catholic church.
None of us were Catholic.
But the priest was Father Primo,  and every Friday  he'd have a dance,  and we'd all go.
Oh, girl,  I had my  circle skirt with all the crinolines on there.
I remember that skirt.
I would wear it every Friday.
And it had  like a carousel  around it.
I couldn't dance, but I could twirl.
And it- and the skirt would go out, you know.
It was- I was having a ball.
And the-  we had, um,  um,  airmen come cause Sampson Air Force Base was close by.
And then we had  sailors, which you don't see anymore.
Do you ever see sailors?
They used to look so nice in they white  suits and they little bib on the back and they little sporty hat.
And they would come there every Friday, it was either  airmen and the sailors and army.
And I thought-  as I got older, I went, where was the sailors coming from?
We know where Sampson-  uh,  where the s-  Air Force  boys were coming from,  but I couldn't remember where the sailors  and the army  guys came from.
It musta been something close by,  you know.
But  even Sampson  wasn't that close, but  they would-  they were here.
They would come.
So  S- St.
Simon'ss was up  on  Oregon Street near Central Avenue.
You know Central Avenue?
That was also  where all the hot dog stores-  I mean, restaurants.
And  you know where the train station.
You know where North Street.
So Central Avenue  from the train station  all the way back  to North Street  was hot dog  restaurants  on both sides of the street.
So you could go to any one you wanted to,  but most of us picked a favorite.
My favorite was the VNS, and I don't know what that means.
Probably back then I knew what it meant.
Oh, the hot dogs was so good.
And I had two friends, RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2,  and  they would take turns  going up there at night.
And they'd come back with the hot dogs.
And then when it was my turn, they'd both go with me   so I didn't have to go by myself.
I was so funny.
As I got older, we laughed about it.
But  they- they would go on they own in the snow, whatever the weather was.
But when it was my turn, they both go with me.
So I'm tryna look at these notes.
I'm glad I wrote 'em down.
So  oh, I said I skip my preteens years, I'm sorry.
Oh, that was when I was going to the  mission.
Uh, then  did you-  how long you been here?
In Rochester.
Oh, so you know Smitty's.
Okay.
Okay, he- that was his last place.
He started out on Ormond Street,  and  he had a restaurant  downstairs.
Like I say everybody lived over something.
My friend RD-NAME-1,  that I say  we grew up like sisters,  she lived up over  him.
He-  he made-  he sold  chicken sandwiches  and  coffee royal.
Coffee royal  was a cup of coffee  with a shot of whiskey in it,  which was illegal, but that's how he made his money.
And he would have dances  in the back  of the restaurant  every week  for teenagers.
And with me,  he would send me to the store.
If I was walking by, he would send me to store to get him a box of salt or a loaf of bread or something like that,  and I'd go gladly  cause I wanted to go that dance.
And he'd always tell me I wasn't old enough.
Then when I got old enough,  he stopped having the dances and moved his restaurant  somewhere else.
Where did he go?
I don't know where he went, but eventually he was up on Central Avenue  up with th- all the hot dogs.
But he was on the corner of North Street  and Central Avenue.
And from there  he moved cross town  on Clarissa Street,  and  from there  he moved  here.
Where did he-  he was somewhere  around here.
Do you remember where he was on this side of town?
Your parents might remember.
Yeah, and eventually he moved to where-  uh, Thurston and- and, uh, Brooks.
That was his last spot.
His wife, um,  had a accident.
She fell through the floor,  broke her hips, and she never recovered.
She was in, uh, the Episcopal home.
She never recovered, and that affected him.
And his health kind of went down too.
So  I think  somebody moved him out to Arizona or something,  and that's where he died.
But he used to- he- he u- he used to t-  when I go in his place,  he'd say, oh,  boy, who let that lady out?
Somebody  take that old lady home.
She too old to be out.
you know, he'd always say something funny about me  knowing he about fifty years older than me.
And- uh,  and  v- we would laugh about it.
And he said sh-  she used to be my paper boy.
Ops, she used to be my paper girl.
She too old to be out.
Somebody take her home.
You know, he would tease.
I wish I could remember where he was before he moved to Thurston.
But  I-  that's-  I- that's why I wrote this stuff down.
Yes, he was.
You right.
He was on- in that plaza there, wasn't he?
Oh no, he was in that-  he was down farther.
Was he in the plaza or where that restaurant on the corner  Columbia?
Yeah, you're right.
He was around Plymouth Avenue.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I can't remember though.
You still don't want a drink or something?
Okay.
Oh no, I'm fine.
I talk all the time.
Don't let me put you to sleep now.
And, uh,  as a teenager,  she let me go  cross town  to  Montgomery Center,  which was on Clarissa Street across the street from Latimer's Funeral Home.
Cab Calloway's house was right behind Latimer's  on,  uh,  the Favor Street.
I forgot the street.
But at- um,    at Montgomery Center,  it was just about the same as at  Baden Street Settlement except, uh,  you saw Mrs.
Brandon, Julia Brandon.
She like  ran Montgomery Center.
She didn't play.
You come in there, and you behaved.
She was a social worker, but she was sort of like  acting as the director.
But they had another director, but I don't-  I think he was more in the background.
But somebody on this side of town might remember better than I do  cause I lived on the other side.
But  I was over here so much people thought I lived over here.
N-  and what we would do-  the wonder bread  place was right next to  Montgomery Center.
And the t- f-  trolley  would cross  Clarissa Street  right at West Main,  um,  near Ni- Nick Tahou  but on the other side of the bridge.
So  it's the open door misison.
You know that block?
Okay, so that's where, um,   Clarissa Street  would start.
So we would walk.
We get on the right side of the street,  and we walk from there down to Bronson, and then  it was l-  LaRue's Restaurant  and Bar was on the corner.
So the restaurant  was on this side,  and the bar was on this side.
They were attached.
It was one building,  but we wasn't old enough to go in the bar,  so we go in the restaurant  and come out  on Bronson,  cross the street,  and go back down Clarissa  to  Main Street.
And we'd do that,  w-  didn't seem like we got tired or anything.
And it's funny cause when they had a Clarissa reunion,  some of us  talk about tha-  it wasn't that exciting.
It's just  we didn't do anything exciting.
We just walked up and down the street all day or all night.
And it was fun.
And then I had to walk home cross town sometime by myself  and never had any kind of fear.
And nobody ever bothered me.
They didn't do that back then.
They didn't bother  young people back then.
And it was- it was a good time to grow up except I did a lot of walking.
I think about that now.
And another hot spot for us was, uh, the Gibson Hotel,  and it was on Clarissa Street  between  Atkinson Street  and Bronson.
And they had, uh,  teenage dances there on the weekend,  but I couldn't go.
I wasn't old enough.
Then when I was old enough,  they tore it down cause  it  caught on fire.
So that was my s- that was my story that  I'm not old enough for some things.
When I'm old enough, it-  it's gone.
It's no more.
So  let's see.
Uh, let's see.
I already said that.
I already- I'm'a give this to you.
Okay?
And the Elk's  on Clarissa Street was another-  you know the Elk's Okay.
Well I used to have to go over there every Monday  after school,  and my mother would give me  bus fare.
And I'd have to leave school  and go over to the Elk's  and get my bicycle  cause my mother would go over there on the weekends  and get too drunlk  to ride the bicycle back home.
So that was a treat for me to go over there on the bus, and I could stay over there  and then ride my bike home.
I didn't have to walk home.
And I think she l- she probably  realized that I enjoyed doing that, you know, t-  that she gave me bus fare.
And  aft- I think about it sometimes and I said,  what'd I do for food?
You know, I don't know what I did for food.
I don't know if she gave me  money for a hot dog or something.
I don't know I don't know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I went to the Pythodd, but I was an adult then.
I was an adult.
And I already talked about the parish house, didn't I?
Yeah, I talked about that  I didn't talk about the train station  Uh,  the train station was  huge.
You ever be-  been to, um,  the Grand Central?
It look like Grand Central  in Rochester.
And we would  play there,  and they had, um,  a wall.
I-  it might still be there.
When I was a kid, it seemed like it was the biggest wall in the world.
But we would  d-  do a dangerous thing.
We would see who could jump up on that  and walk across it without falling off.
If we had fell off, we woulda died.
It was up so high.
It was at least two stories tall and that was not the station itself.
That was a wall  along side of it.
I'm sorry about that.
Get down boy cat.
Get down.
Get down.
He's a- he's fourteen years old.
So he's kind of  set when somebody come, he jumps on the table.
I can't break him.
Too old now .
Um,  the movies,  they were all over Rochester back then.
I mean,  you didn't know where to go.
So,  we black people had our favorites.
One was called the Strand,  and it was on St.
Paul Street.
And that's where the  kids from across town used to go.
And the other one was the Grand,  and it was on  Plymouth.
That's North Plymouth.
Down off Maine Street.
North Plymouth.
And  sometimes  we would go to  the capital  which was on West Main.
So we had choices that we liked to go.
But my favorite  was the RKO Palace.
Cause it was like walking into a palace.
Beautiful long drapes, velvety drapes, and  chandeliers and carpeted floors.
And you had a long-  look at that-  You so embarrassing.
We had a long walk before you get to the concession stand.
And then you  could go in and find a seat.
And I liked cause I could sit upstairs or I could sit downstairs.
I was in New York state.
And that was-  that was really nice.
My grandmother and I  came up here  yeah they had the RKO Palace, the RKO Temple,  The RKO?
The other one was on East Avenue.
Oh it was so many movies.
Um,  I lost my train of thought.
Oh, yeah the- Yeah.
And at the movie when you went then  you got a choice of  you- you always had two full length  movies.
And you had  I don't know how many cartoons,  then you had the coming attractions.
You had  uh,  what they call serials,  which was chapters.
And-  and you always had a western.
You got all of that for your money.
Every week.
And movies would change  frequently.
They didn't stay there for weeks like they do here, like they do now.
They would change maybe weekly.
And my favorite western  was Lash LaRue.
He was a little short man and he used a whip.
And he rode a donkey.
But he was supposed to be a real cowboy.
And my other favorite was Johnny Mack Brown.
And my  special favorite was Roy Rogers  and Dale Evans.
You ever hear of them?
Well when they got married I didn't talk to my mother- I was so hurt for so long  cause she wouldn't let me go to they wedding.
In Hollywood .
And it may not even been in Hollywood.
I was just assuming it was Hollywood cause that's where they mee- made movies.
My mother would not let me go to their wedding.
And I understand now cause  you know, I've understood that a long time.
They didn't know me I didn't know them.
Roy Rogers and Dale Evans, they got married, I was so hurt.
I couldn't go to they wedding.
That's how crazy I was back then.
I was sincere.
I wanted to go to that wedding.
So she bought me a movie magazine that had pictures in it.
So I wish I'd have saved that.
So let's see, oh the bridges.
Over on this side of town,  they had a lot of bridges in the neighborhood.
On the other side, they were mostly in white neighborhoods.
The bridges that crossed  s-  streets  and the-  my favorite bridge,  was over Bronson Avenue.
Which, you know, now is called McCree.
Okay.
W- we didn't do bad things, but we'd go up under the bridge.
and every- any,  you know,  kids would just congregate under the bridge, we had no where else to go.
We didn't have family rooms and  patios and stuff like that.
And people lived in apartments,  and if  your parents sitting there,  you can't bring your company in there.
You wanna talk or something, you couldn't go in your bedroom.
You got to sit there with your parents, so  we would all go under the bridges.
And  certain kids had certain bridges they liked to be under.
And we had boys that go from bridge to bridge,  telling  dirty jokes.
And we would laugh and  somebody might have a  a k- a bottle of  Pepsi or Coke or something and we'd share it.
And bag of peanuts and stuff like that.
It was just fun.
We had nothing else to do.
So that's-  that's what we did.
And when it was time to go home, I'd start walking and walk all the way over  across town.
So um,  then over here  o- on my side of town,  they had what they called jukes.
You know what that is?
It's a place where they have a big juke box  and  you know what a juke box is?
So that's what  we would do.
You punch  your-  the-  the songs you wanna hear,  and everybody would dance.
And ju-  just sit around  and talk.
And  they had one next door to my house then-  his name was Georgia Boy.
Big old man named Georgia Boy.
He didn't play with no-  you didn't in here in his place acting up either.
And the other one name was Bop.
It was Bop's Blue Heaven.
He sold records.
But I think he sold something else, but.
But we didn't it did- it wasn't our business, so.
But we think Bop sold something else.
And  that was a lot of fun too.
And then we had one friend, his name was RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-2, he went  to the war,  and he came back  and he was smoking reefer.
And we were scared of him.
Everybody was scared of him.
So he was like ostracized, nobody had anything to do with him.
And he  kept doing what he was doing til he died.
So that was kind of scary  to have somebody using  drugs.
Boy if we could have that today.
Wouldn't that be something?
But,  that's the way it was back then, we were scared of 'em.
So, um,   and another thing, um,  we were more accepting of people  same sex  being  in love or caring about each other too.
That wasn't a issue back then.
I don't know how that got started.
Um,  and we had two of 'em that come to our house and borrow my mother's clothes, her fur coats and all these  nice clothes my mother had.
One name was Sue,  And the other one name was Manny.
And I remember them as if it was last week.
And Sue was a little lady, little one, and  this- she'd always walk like this.
And she lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 up over the police precinct.
And Manny would visit her, so they-  They may have been a couple or  they just-  I don't know what they did.
But, that wasn't a issue back then.
And we had police stations  everywhere.
Everywhere.
We had one on Bronson.
We had 'em on um,  Jefferson.
Thurston.
They were everywhere.
Just like  see neighborhoods had movies.
My-  my g- nephew,  RD-NAME-2's brother,  his church is on  RD-ADDRESS-1 Street.
And that used to be the World Theater.
That was the name of it.
The World.
They had  movies on Jeff- Joseph Avenue,  Clinton Avenue,  Jefferson Avenue.
I used to live across from one on  Jefferson Avenue.
That-  when it closed, it-  it-  it was a vending company.
There was a movie theater right there on  uh,  Jefferson and  Bronson.
It's a church now.
Uh, it's been a church a long time.
You know where Gladys sell  chicken sandwiches and pies next door?
That big brick?
That was a movie-  movie theater.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah, they was everywhere.
And you didn't- you didn't have a car that's okay.
you could still go to the movie.
It wouldn't be the movie that you'd see downtown this week.
But it would be a  a movie  and you'd get the same  quality.
You'd get the movie, the-  the western, the m-  the movie, the cartoons, coming attraction, the chapters.
Now they call them chapters, we used to call them serials.
So.
I know the meaning of the word t-   Didn't know back then.
So.
I don't know what else to tell you.