You could ask me some questions.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Mm-hm.
I think we did  but  I can't tell you that  I personally  felt it.
Um,  but I'm sure-  I'm sure we did.
We probably couldn't  live where we wanted to live  or work where we wanted to work.
But I'm sure that discrimination was there.
But if it had been    I probably woulda remember if it had been  really bad.
I would remember that.
Yup.
It's a- it's some nice people have g-   come through Rochester so- some nice white people.
So,  um,  but I'm sure it was there.
But I think a lot of times  it's who you know.
And a lot of times our parents worked for them.
You know.
So,  naturally not gonna distrip- discriminate us- against us in-  Well, it-  let me tell you something.
Let me back up.
Yes.
But, it wasn't in Rochester.
It was in  Brighton.
My mother, worked in Brighton.
Now, everybody-   Did anybody you talk to tell you about Joseph Avenue?
That was, like, a mall.
Cause it was nothing but stores up and down Joseph Avenue.
You- anything you wanted,  you go to Joseph Avenue.
Our first,  uh, black woman to work in a store on Joseph Avenue,  died recently.
Uh, her name was Mrs.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-5.
And she  was the first  black person to have a job on Joseph Avenue.
She worked at RD-WORK-3   Drug Store.
And I remember Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 she always wore these pretty   necklace and matching earrings.
And, she ca-  She worked at RD-WORK-3, and she went on to become a school teacher.
And she retired from RD-WORK-5 school on Barrington Street.
So,  yes, there was  discrimination.
Um,  my mother,  I told you, my mother did  housework.
Daywork for white people.
And  depending on what house she went to,  I couldn't go inside,  when she'd take me with her.
So,  on those days,  when she go to a house where I couldn't go inside,  I would have to go to the beach.
Charlotte Beach.
And,  we would ride the bus til we get downtown,  and she'd get a bus and go to Brighton.
I get the bus and go out to Charlotte Beach.
And,  I don't think we met  coming back cause we didn't know how to do that,  or unless she said,  you get on the bus at a certain time.
I don't know how we-  I don't even know if we came back home at the same time.
But, that's what I felt.
And, my mother, I know it hurt her.
And,  she have to-  She h-  took me to a gas station at the twelve corners,  when I had to go to the bathroom.
So, that was a problem for her  to leave work.
And walk me down   to a gas station and go to bathroom.
So, she started  sending me to Charlotte Beach  when she'd go to  that particular house.
And,    um,  on other time- other days,  I could sit out  on the step or something.