I do,  I do.
Um, I think technically the nineteenth ward.
I grew up on a  RD-ADDRESS-3 between  RD-ADDRESS-3  and, uh,    RD-ADDRESS-3 right where all of the gentrification is happening  right now.
Yes  yes that's- that's where I grew up and that's where my parents are still.
So, yeah.
I would describe it as inner city.
I mean, I grew up,  um, I'm  thirty-nine now, but when I grew up, it was the G-Boys and the Black Mob and,  you know it's a- you know, between jen-  Cottage Street was pretty-  a lot of homeowners, but Genesee and Jefferson, um, a lot of, uh, just,  um, activity,  uh, around, but also a very  pretty area.
Um, a lot of old homes, a lot of  uh, older residents, um, living in the area.
And so, it- it was a mix of you know, the city.
That's how I would describe it.
I loved, um,  where I grew up.
I,  I- I think you appreciate it more when you grow up.
Um, and uh,  I-  I meant to read an article recently,  I haven't read it yet, and it's about why,  um, African Americans who make it,  don't leave the city.
I didn't read it, but she and I talk about this all the time, like, I would never live this- leave the city.
In- and I think the older I get, the more I want to  be in what might be described as a grittier part of the city and not necessarily-  you know, cause there are  people think of the-  the city as the city, but in Rochester there are,  all white neighborhoods in the city, you know, Park Ave and East Ave and  and so, when you make it, you might not leave the city, but you might move to that area.
You know, and I'm like,  I don't know if I wanna live in that area.
Might wanna live in  you know,  South Wedge and  Corn Hill, and- which is right around the corner from where I grew up as well.
yes.
I- When you said that, I was like, oh, I could go over- that's like, you know, walking distance from my parents.
So, yeah.
So.
Gentrification is happening.
So I grew up around the corner from the U of R and they built that bridge and we used to  walk across the bridge and watch the games, the football games, um, during section five championships and  yeah, um, walking distance from my house- well, U of R is coming up and  they're building and College Town is booming and so,  they've decided that they wanna,  basically, i- um, take up that neighborhood and so,  it's the strangest thing, um,   it was a very predominantly black neighborhood, um,  and, uh, on my parent's street,  you'll see a house full of college kids, so like this,   you know,  bro house,  in the middle of the hood.
and, uh, and so, it's- i- it's a little, n- uh,  I don't wanna s- i-,  it knocks you back a little, um, because I think I was in the middle about gentrification cause I used to get upset and say things like, I'd love for businesses to be in the city.
And we deserve good restaurants, and, you know, they all move out  of our neighborhoods.
And,  now that I see what's happening, I'm like, wait a minute.
the- this neighborhood that nobody wanted to live in, now you can't get an apartment for under twelve-hundred dollars, you know.
Or- you know- for a one bedroom, some-  some of these,  and so it's like,  pushing the folks  who have lived here forever  out.
And it's a different kind of ownership  that I'm feeling, like, what?
I don't know if like this whole gentrification thing now, because it means,  you displace the folks  who are there.
You don't just bring the  good restaurants and the businesses, but you displace the folks who are there and that's the part that's a little  disconcerting.
They move-  they move into it- so- w- i- it's almost like,  you reduce their foot space, or their footprint and so,  um,    my sister was looking for apartments over there and she had to move on this side of town  you know, you have to move to the East side.
So you have to go find,  an urban area that you can afford,  and so it's almost like you're being displaced, or,  um,  all pushed  into a smaller segment  of the inner city.
And- and so that's what I've seen happening, um, folks can't afford to- and that was never, like, a great neighborhood to live in.
S- so.
Mm-hm.
You know what, that kind of breaks my heart, but I imagine it looking like,  the Park Ave area.
Maybe not Park,  yeah,  that's what I imagine it in ten  fifteen years.
Yeah.
Yeah, so.
oh- well- and for people who don't know what that is, it's a- it's a wealthy neighborhood in the inner city, or in the city of Rochester.
Um,   but it's predominantly white.
It's where  yuppies live.
Um, it's where  folks who  n- i- you know.
It's expensive housing in the city,  um, that is definitely predominantly white.
Yeah.
I can't speak to that, I don't think so.
I think they are just trying to make more room and space for their students.
And trying to make it attractive to the folks that they are,  um,    reaching out to.
And so,  this whole push for safer spaces and  building, you know, this whole perception that you're in the city,  the U of R, but it might not be safe and so they're  taking up real estate  that is exclusive to the folks that they're catering to.
And that's how it feels to me.
But that's without any data.
I don't know what attempts U of R,  um, has at, uh- my parents live a couple of blocks from U of R, I don't think they've reached out at all, I don't think-  but    who knows,  um, if there is something in the works, I'm not aware of it.
Yeah.
Nope.
I went to school at RD-SCHOOL-4 So, I'm a I'm an RD-SCHOOL-3.
laugh I loved RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3,  excuse me, um,    so I graduated in ninety-five  And I would say we were the last school year, I think in ninety-six  they started putting in the, um, medical detectors and security and police, the year after I graduated.
So,    high school I think  changed a lot the year- cause I remember a lot of my class  was very upset and we went to the school, like,  folks went to the schools to kind of say, what's going on?
You know.
Cause we couldn't believe they were putting  metal- I know that's a  kind of normal part of everyones life now, but,  um,  RD-SCHOOL-3 was fun.
I went, uh,  the years that I was in school, we went  to championships for boys and girls basketball.
We were  a powerhouse in football,  um, and so,    I think if your high school years,  um, have that kind of stuff, you have a closer connection to your school, there's a lot of  camaraderie because you're all, like, traveling to states together.
And you're the RD-SCHOOL-3, and you're,  you know, so.
I loved high school.
And, uh, RD-SCHOOL-3 was a  pretty diverse high school,  um, because it's a, um,    technical occupational school.
There were a lot of, uh, immigrants  that went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um, so I had a lot of Laotian, Vietnamese and, uh,  Thai students in my classes and some of our shops.
Didn't speak any English, but they could do math and they could do shop type things and-  and of course, um, people don't think the inner city's diverse, but I went to school with a lot of,  um,  white and Latino kids.
Um, as well as the larger population of black students, but  I loved RD-SCHOOL-3.
I loved high school.
So.
Um, so,  growing up in the inner city,  um, my parents didn't have a lot of money.
Um, they grew themselves, they've been together since they were teenagers.
And so,  they were poor, without parents.
Who they lost their parents at young ages, on their own as teenagers  raising kids and, um, and  they are successful,  you know, from  any standards.
Um, but they didn't have a lot of money, and so, that's the typically story of inner city kids.
That-  you know, first thing I wanted to do when I got to high school was get a job.
You know, cause my parents can't afford to  buy me the most popular sneakers and all this different stuff.
And so,  RD-SCHOOL-3 represented a job.
And so, when I was at RD-SCHOOL-3, I was a advanced student.
I was in a lot of advanced classes and, um, they had a couple of programs  one at RG and E that was starting and one at Kodak, and  at the time, getting a job at RD-WORK-2 was like,  getting your master's, you know.
Lifetime job,  obviously that didn't-   And so even though I graduated,    either fifth or sixth in my class, I can't remember.
nobody really encouraged me to go to college.
And so, I took that job at RD-WORK-2.
Um,  really high GPA, but  my parents didn't go to college.
You know, and so, they were all interested in my success.
Um, but for them,  RD-WORK-2 represented success.
And so, they encouraged me to have that guaranteed job.
Um, I mean we talk about it now, I'm a little disappointed that  none of my counselors, or anybody encouraged me to go to college even though I graduated  in the top percentage of my class and  was obviously a- a- a college  track student.
Um,  so,  most of my high school I worked.
I got a job the summer before my- yep,  I got a job the summer  before my  junior year.
So sophomore and junior year, I worked the whole summer, I worked every holiday, I worked every break.
I worked myself to death.
Like,  in hindsight, I worked too much in high school.
Um, so, I didn't join any clubs.
I didn't participate in much, I worked.
I bought my first car,  um,  that summer, with my own money.
It was a piece of crap, but it was my car, that I bought with my own money, going into the eleventh grade.
And, uh,  um, so, I had a car, so I could go to all the games.
So, I would work, I'd go to school,  I'd leave, I'd work,  and then I'd come to the games.
And so, that's what I did my, uh,  years at,  uh,  at, um,   RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-WORK-2.
Yeah.
No, I got a job.
And then when I graduated, they put me into a full time apprenticeship  as in a- as a machinist.
So, I worked at RD-WORK-2 for a few years,  awful.
I was in manufacturing.
I was- I mean, I think,  uh, the- uh,  it was the most brut- it was like walking into the forties.
I mean, I was  I think one of maybe two black women in the entire-  um, and she wasn't even in the machine- in- in  ap- the ap- trades anymore.
So I may have been the only black woman.
Um, there were a small percentage of black men.
There were a small percentage of women, so, I would say the large majority of the folks that I worked with were  white men  in their fifties.
Um,    who were  very angry,  who felt like we were taking their jobs,  mainly me,  um, and it was a hostile environment, where people felt free to speak their minds and you needed to depend on them to teach you  in order to be successful.
So you can imagine the,  um,    predatory relationship.
And- and  how much a person has to put up with in order to  be successful in  their role.
So, s- but- but obviously I didn't stay at RD-WORK-2.
Uh, I saw the writing on the wall.
And about twenty-five,  twenty-six I,  went back to school.
And, uh,  I got my MBA.
And got a job.
Almost eleven years ago.
I've been in the same role for- or the same company   for eleven years, so.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3 I, um,  when I was at RD-WORK-2, because I was an academic,  you know,  I took classes in machi- I was a machinist so I'm like, I need to take classes in machining.
So, I got a two year degree in machining.
And then I'm like, uh, I need more than this.
So I- I went to night school forever.
So then I got like, uh,  I almost got my,  um,  two year in business administration and then I quit.
Went back to school, finished the business administration.
Went to u- RD-SCHOOL-3 finished my bachelor's.
And then got my MBA.
Um, like,  it was, a,  hell three years, cause I was  trying to go as quickly as I could to finish it.
And-  and, uh, got my MBA.
And  that was the best decision, I ever made, um, because  I probably would have been postal or something if I stayed at- it- I can't even imagine what my life would be if I was still at RD-WORK-2.
Um, I didn't enjoy it as much as I- I wanted to.
I loved-  like when I think of my coll- I loved  learning.
Um,    I was in a tough situation cause I quit my job so I was dependent on another person.
And so I wa- tha- that made it more stressful.
Um,  And so when I tell you I completed like, four years and three,   I didn't have more than two weeks off in a three year  span.
Uh, like, I- I remember I took  um, I- f- graduated,  um,  RD-SCHOOL-3 with my bachelor's.
Like, I finished my last exam on Wednesday,  um, I studied for my, um, GMAT for my MBA    on Thursday and Friday, I took my test on Saturday, I started class on Monday.
Like, and I needed to have a qualifying score to even get in.
You know, and it was-  it was really stressful, but  I love learning.
I- uh- um because I  killed myself,  I think, um,   I was a little burned out for a little while.
Um, but  I've actually been looking at trying to find  a career on a college campus so I can just take cl- free classes, you know.
I love learning.
So, you're right.
I'm a nerd.
I am a nerd.
You are correct.
Okay, it'll beep.
Oh, it'll beep s- Got hot in here.
I can turn on the air.
Okay.
Nope, I'm fine.
I work at a telecom  software  engineering company out in Victor.
Again I've been there for ten and a half years.
Um,    It's, uh,  we do billing for telephone companies and I work in the project management department.
I am a manager of  basically the technical resources on projects.
We get new customers in,  or existing customers moved to new software.
A lot of our organization is software engineers.
My folks are more of the,  uh, in-between.
The engineers create it,  somebody needs to show the customer how to use it, how to set it up,  w- um, train them.
Um,  and those are the folks that report to me.
And so, I- I started as a business analyst.
I moved into an implementation consultant role and then I became the manager of implementation consulting.
And then,  took on a couple of other,  um, groups under me, but I'm basically manage technical folks who work with customers.
So.
Yeah.
Absolutely, I've been actually looking,  um, so,  my wife, I was telling you that she  is multilingual.
She's actually half Portuguese.
She's a interesting story she was born  in the Congo.
Her father is Portuguese and lived in-  in the Congo.
And her mother was in the Peace Corps and they met,  in the middle of Africa.
and had her and her two siblings.
And she lived there until she was seven, but the warring and the Civil War kind of pushed them here.
So she came  here, Syracuse,  um, and so, she hates the cold weather.
She hates the cold weather,  um,    b- and so we've talked about w- moving to warmer climate.
But I'm really attached to my family and I can't-  you know, the agreement is not to move within a  day's drive,  um, so we've been looking at DC.
Also we have to consider that we're two women.
Um,  I'm black, you know, like all these different things.
And so, I personally don't wanna move too far south.
Um,  only because  we talked about, we wanna have children.
I don't ever wanna be in a place where it's acceptable to like,  put your confederate flag outside, or to do- you know what people up here are just as racist as people down south,  but there's like an etiquette.
Like,  right.
Like.
I want you to have- refrain from saying things in front of me.
You know what I mean, like,  I-  I don't want it to be s- acceptable just to say how you feel, wherever, whenever, walk, or- you know.
And so I don't wanna be in that type of environment.
And- and also, um, the laws.
You know, even though  even though marriage equality is around the country, there's still some r- um, laws in the books in a lot of our states that are not protective and,  um, and they're not little, you know.
It's just a couple years ago, that a woman's, w- um, wife  died in emergency in Florida.
And she was unable to sit next to her because she wasn't  considered her next of kin.
I- I would murder, people, if my loved one was sitting in emer- you know, so-  So those are really important things that you have to consider.
And so,  um, for now, DC is probably the furthest south we're willing to go.
Um, but it's- I-  we're considering changing my name on the resume.
I'm  applying for jobs I'm way overqualified for and I  can't get a bite.
I can't get a bite.
So,  I don't know what to do.
I've been    looking for so long.
I've- I sent it to my friend, she's like, let me look at it.
And she hasn't gotten back to me, cause I suspect she thinks I have a good resume.
there's just  no reason  for not getting a callback from anywhere, so.
Locally,  uh- afar I have not  been able to-  Mm-hm   I've- I've, uh, looked at U of R and RIT.
Um, what I find is that most of them want you to have college experience, which is  frustrating cause I'm not looking for teaching jo- roles.
I'm looking for roles that are within my scope  of, uh,  knowledge.
And there, you know, and you get knocked from that, for not having  experience on a co- Like,  I- I get so frustrated because  a lot of your skills are transferable.
It- you know you can learn whatever the technology is, or whatever the industry is.
You can't teach good leadership.
You know, like, you can teach some things, s- some people are natural at it or you're-  There are some things that are  inherent in people that make them good leaders.
That make them,  you know.
And so, it's easier to teach the other stuff.
So, it's really frustrating that you can't get in the door.
But I'm, you know-  I'm- I don't sit on my  hands.
I- I do-  you know, I'm looking at the scholarship, um, program at MCC that allows you to go into the classroom, push into a classroom and then to- you know have  someone mentor you.
So that you can get some experience because I have  a lot of things I'd love to do.
And  in a place in my life where I wanna give back.
You know, I volunteer a lot.
I  s- did the black pride this year, which was very-  I- I loved connecting through the community in a different way.
I think sometimes  we become orphans and our, um,    environments, you know, we are the only ones, you know, and especially with intersectionality.
I-  we-  And so you don't even realize how disconnected you get from your community.
I mean, I have my family, but tha- but that's still a different beast.
And- and so, it was very important for me to get involved with black pride and- and I-  and I-  and I wanna f-  I wanna work with kids.
I wanna work in education.
I wanna work in,  you know, gay youth who get kicked out of their homes.
I have all these loves and desires to  just get involved in things.
I wanna go to work  and like, love what I do.
Like, my wife love what she does.
She works at RD-WORK-4 and she's in a non-profit and she gives back.
She saves lives.
I don't save lives.
I  make sure your phones work.
You know, like,   I'm not discounting what I do, but I don't get up and  have fulfillment everyday.
I need to find a role that I feel  fulfilled.
And I think it's gonna be giving back.
You know, and- and usually- and I think my  biggest desire,  is to give back to folks who are,  um,  the most disenfranchised.
You know, whether it's gay youth,  or black youth, or inner city youth.
You know,  tha- that's my passion so.
So- and it's my wife's as well.
So, I think that Rochester is  ahead of- You know, the state of New York.
I think we're called the welfare state.
We- we have a lot of public services that a lot of states don't.
We really do.
Um, and so, if you don't know that, it doesn't feel like enough.
Um, it's never enough, but  I think we have a lot of, um, social welfare programs.
I think we do have a lot of, um,  LGBTQ,  um, programs.
Um,  but like anything, in anywhere,    do we touch the black community enough.
do we touch,  um,  the most disenfranchised no matter what  segment, or what support we have.
You know, and- and so,  I still see that lacking.
And it was one of the reasons I got involved with black pride is cause I go out and I think there are a lot of things for the gay  community in Rochester, or the LGBTQ community.
But I never see people that look like me.
Or if I do, it's it- they're so few.
You know, and we go to Atlanta  to get any diversity in the gay community.
Or it's my family.
My family's house you know like, to get any- but    and so we're here,  we just don't have enough  glue.
You know, and so.
So, in one sense there is- there  are a lot of opportunities,  um,  but just like  any other facet of society, we usually leave people behind.
Yeah, yeah.
Um, you wanna turn, babe?
Babe?
Thanks.
Thank you.
Um,  I don't know if I have the solutions, but, um,  I think  we need space.
You know, um,  we need our- we need a space we needs- we need  the opportunity to come together.
And so,  I think RD-NAME-3's doing a phenomenal job  of creating spaces.
Um,  and I think he does a really good job of taking people where they are,  um, because there's a big spectrum  of where people are.
In terms of their own identities,  their own trauma,  um, their own ability to even know where they are, um, and  I think,  once we create the space,  letting people know there is-  there are these safe spaces to come to.
Um,    and-  and then once we have those spaces,  making those spaces, our space, in terms of  you know, w- what's lacking when I go to R- R- gay pride, Rochester gay pride,  are events that cater to people of color.
You know, and so, people are like, why do you need your own event?
Well,  you don't realize that,  what is- and I'm using quotation mark- the norm,  is really,  the white.
And so,  by default, everything caters to white culture, or- or- or white folks,  um,  and they don't even realize, it isn't really geared toward me, or my interests.
And so,  finding spaces  that,  we can play music, that we're able to relate to, or  talk about    things we love,  play spades.
I mean  things that,  um, connect to us culturally,  that- that,  I think the larger community takes for granted.
Um, but we don't have those spaces ever.
except at our family picnic, or-   Yeah.
So,  I think it's important to create the spaces, and then invite folks to those spaces,  knowing that those spaces belong to them.
And I think,  um,  that will help people feel more included.
You know, um.
And  I think it makes you participate in other things if you've- you're feeling fulfilled,  um, personally.
Like, I got my fill, I got  what I need.
This is my space.
Maybe I'll go to that other event because, you know,  I'm good on this front.
You know, so, I-  I don't have the answers, I just-  I think- I think folks like RD-NAME-3 are doing a great job of kind of  spearheading,  um,  some great ideas.
Yeah.
Mm-hm  It's one hundred percent.
That's an example, um, probably most white men don't know,  that- s-   that voguing happens on- in and it's  huge in the black gay male community.
Huge, it's one of the biggest things  and yet I would tell you most  gay white men aren't aware of that.
When they say vogue, they probably think of the Madonna vid- video and that's the end of the conversation.
And yet it's a huge part of the black male, uh, black gay male community.
So, yeah.
Yes.
And even within our communities, even gay black men versus,  um, g- um,  gay queer black women  there's still  some,  you know,  differences.
There's still,  um, some needs to- some need to  have separate spaces, or  spaces that satisfy both.
You know, and so,  um,  again, I think RD-NAME-3  gets it, and he's trying to p-  create those spaces, you know.
He is,  he is, he is.
Mm-hm.
About Rochester,  um, I think, uh,  I think Rochester is a great place, um,  it's not too big.
You know,  I don't know if I could ever live permanently in a place like New York City cause it's huge it's- it's massive.
There's so much going on.
Um, you can't really relax,  um, but I obviously don't wanna be in farmland, you know.
So, mark- Rochester's this middle ground.
Um,  not too big,  not too small.
It's got a lot of art,  it's got a lot of history  I'm proud that Susan B.
Anthony and Frederick Douglass, you know, lived a- an important part of their lives here.
Um,  it's got a lot of great music scene.
Um,  we have a lot of  you know, restaurants.
there's a lot going in in Rochester.
Again, we can't compete with DC, or New York, but  in terms of middle size cities, I think Rochester's- has a great history and a lot going on.
And,  um, we can keep ourselves busy here.
Um, I'm never bored, we are always discovering- it's great that she's not from- my wife isn't from Rochester  cause I discover things with her all the time, that I wouldn't  because I've been here my whole life.
But I think it really- and she tells me all the time- it's a- She's live in Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo and she loves Rochester.
Yeah, she loves it more than Buffalo or  Syracuse, so, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
She lived there for ten years.
Went to college and she love Rochester more than Buffalo.
So,  Yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
Do you know there's a fantasy, uh, park here.
F- like,  like a- what are they called, fairy park.
In Henrietta there is a park  with little like, twenty something little  fairy houses built into the trees.
Yeah.
Like,  we you know.
So, I- like we try to do date nights.
Um, we do- we've been together almost five years, but we we really believe in trying to keep our lives k-  like don't ever lose it.
Keep working for each other.
You know like,  work just as hard as the first year,  as the twentieth year.
And so we rotate on, uh, date nights.
And so, we're al- I'm always looking for new creative things to do and I found the fairy park and I'm like,  what?
Were-  Yes.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So,  Yeah.
You know, I can't-  this is a personal one, um,  I mean we still live in-  I always joke about if we didn't have New York City we'd be a red state.
New York City is holding us down.
Because Upstate New York is conservative.
It is ultra conservative.
And I am reminded of it everyday that I drive out to Victor to go to my job.
Granted, I have a lot of young folks that work at my job,  that  it balances.
Um,  but  the trucks and the signs and the  the- it- we live in such a conserv- you know.
It's  outside  the city limits of Rochester.
you could be driving into the South.
You know, and- and some of these areas in terms of their belief systems.
And- and, um,  and their politics, and-  And so that's the one thing  that is, uh,  a little disappointing  about living in this area.
Um, but  I don't have a lot of knocks.
Um, it's pretty affordable.
I love the grittiness of the inner city,  it's- it's- it's my it's- my people.
It's  where I come from.
They get a bad rep.
I'm never intimidated, or scared, uh,  uh, you know.
It's you know, it's- it's funny cause we get to do a lot of    comparisons because she's white and I'm black and- and our cultures are different.
Our backgrounds and- and you know, some of the things  that are very obvious to her.
Like, our friendliness is a culture.
You know, and how we speak.
And how- you know, and she's like, how could somebody be afraid of him?
You know, this kid  I'm walking down the street, he's got dreads, got a mean look on his face and I'm like, hey  and he look up and gave you a smile.
You know, and it's like,  y- you know, I love  the inner city and- and I don't discount  the bad things that happen, but  they happen everywhere.
we just make the news more.
Yeah.
We talk about this too, my wife and I.
We have political discussions all the time.
Um, I think that, some of them are conservative.
I think the majority of them are not.
Um, I think right now there are a lot of folks  who are being bombarded  by things they didn't know existed.
And they're having-  what is it called  where,  um,  what you were taught is completely different than what you're looking at.
Uh, I can't think of the terminology.
Um,  and so,  you start to, you know, when you see a police officer kill someone  on tape,  and it looks wrong,  there has to be a reason for it.
Because that's just not what I was taught.
You know, and I s- I think there are a lot of folks  who are in this middle ground right now,  who can't really explain what's going on,  but it can't be that.
You know what I mean?
their- their-  Cognitive dissonance.
ye- yeah, yes, dissonance yes.
Um,   that's what's going on.
And- and so, I think that  our generation is better than the last,  in terms of  open mindedness  but not that much more .
I do think-  I mean you think about, um, social media and who all the trolls are,  they tend to be  young white guys,  computer geeks I mean these are the folks who- so,  I do think a lot of this is being passed on.
Um, but I do think for the most part-  You know, there used to be an entire generation of folks who all believed this stuff.
You know, and there were  dots of folks who didn't.
I think  there are more people who are more open minded,  who are braver,  who are- I mean there are white people who are woke.
My wife is one.
Um,  she gets more angry than I do.
You know, and- and,  um,  I think you have a higher  population of those folks.
But I do there are a lot of folks who are still,  um,  picking up the torches of, um,  what their parents  have taught them.
So, but I do think it's mostly,  folks who are in the middle.
But you can look at it as-  What's that saying?
if you don't take a stance, you are taking a stance.
You know?
People don't wanna get involved.
That's not my problem.
You're part of the problem.
You know?
Yeah, something like that.
Yep.
Yep.
And we all, you know,    we're all guilty of some type of collusion, or  you know, whatever it takes to survive.
We've all had to swallow our pride at some point.
And so, I'm not judgmental at all.
Um, and I think we  and- and- and I don't know where you are in your journey, but a lot of us,  carry guilt.
Um,  because  in one  sense,  it's your responsibility to stand up,  in another sense,  you need to survive.
And these folks aren't,  you know, into explanation, you know.
You just need your paycheck.
And so what are you willing to put up with  in order  to pay your bills.
You know, and so it's a- k- it's a- it's a daily struggle around,  what's acceptable,  how much you're willing to put up with,  what's your breaking point,  or what's your stand up point?
And that's just a,  um,  I think we all struggle with that.
Everyday of our lives.
You know,  I struggled more when I was at RD-WORK-2 .
Um.
Um,  but I have had  a handful of days at my company that were,  you know,  my blackness  was,  you know,  bleeding  off of me.
You know, it just- just Yes, yes.
Absolutely.
Again, not nearly as many as RD-WORK-2, but- but  there have been instances.
and- and I- after leaving RD-WORK-2 I- you know, there was one incident, where  that happened at my job and I just t-  told myself I would never be in that situation again,  cause I was so,  it was so bad.
And  I did stick up for, you know, something I believed in at my job.
And-  and  it didn't get handled well.
But I walked out with my pride,  you know what I mean.
And I didn't lose my job.
And I didn't, you know.
But it was something that I was never able to do at RD-WORK-2, you know.
And so, that was-  that was a good thing.
It was important.
You know,  so.
Yeah.
No.
I don't talk about it at work.
At all.
Zero.
I- I don't even  open that spa- I am the only black woman at my job.
I am only one of two black people at my job.
I wouldn't say there are maybe a hundred and twenty, a hundred and thirty people.
Um, so,  uh, there are no Latinos.
There's one Indian guy.
So we're talking, one black man, one black woman, one Indian guy and all the rest are  white men and women.
And so, it is not-  not that I've ever felt threatened,  but it's just not a safe space to have open and honest race discussions.
So, I don't even go there.
I don't invite the conversation.
The only time I ever  said anything,    um,  wa- recently,  um, it was, one of-  one of the bad weeks.
I think it was the back to back videos with Alton Sterling and it was- it was just an awful, awful week.
And  I know what we as black people were feeling.
And the black guy at work, we had never talked about race cause it just doesn't feel safe to-  you know.
And those spaces especially are the only w-  We've never- we talk about sports, we've never gone there.
He's married to a white woman.
I don't know if he's Don Lemon, or he's- you know, I don't-  Not that I'm not married to a white woman , but I don't know where he's at.
And I- And I remember one morning, that week,  I was in the cafeteria,  and I needed to check in with him.
And I said, how are you?
And he gave me a look,  and it was- it was important that I checked in with him.
And he said,  he said it's just- you know like, we- we connected.
And  we only had a couple of minutes, because somebody came into the cafeteria and we ended it,  but I'm so glad I checked in with him,  because I think he needed that.
You know,  I don't know that for sure,  but he talked to me,  um, it was almost like, I see you.
You know,  I'm acknowledging you.
Especially as a black man.
I know what I'm feeling.
I know what you have to be feeling.
And it was a good  two minutes of conversation.
We haven't talked about it since.
Um,  but I needed to check in with him.
And- and I felt good about that check in.
You know.
So,  that's it.
It stays away from work.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um,  activism.
You know, I see RD-NAME-3's group.
I see,  um,  the group B-L-A-K- C-K  Um, BLACK.
which was different from black pride.
But, um.
I see a lot of activism happening.
Um, a lot of folks in my feed.
Um, they're brave.
I mean,  it- you know, for me, It feels like a choice between my career  and  what I'm socially passionate about.
And so that's why I- I think I try to get- honestly, if I'm being honest with myself,  I try to give back  in ways,  that can't come back on me.
You know what I mean.
And so,  I don't know what getting involved with BLACK  and protesting and getting arrested  would do.
I'd probably get fired.
Well- I'm- I- I make  too much money.
Not that anybody else's money is less important.
You know, cause people are making those decisions everyday and they're brave.
Um,  but I don't know if I'd be able to get another job.
And making what I'm making now.
And so, you have to m- and so,  I am proud of the people who make those decisions and we need people up front and we need brave people.
I'm not in a space to be there.
Maybe I will one day,  maybe I'll put myself in a position that I can make those types of decisions,  but in my current space, I don't feel like I can do those types of things.
Um, but I'm-  I'm proud of the folks who are involved in activism and  who are making noise.
And,  um,  It- you know.
There's not a perfect way to do it.
People  have criticisms for everybody who does anything.
Anybody  protesting peacefully, take a knee.
You know,  whatever it might be,  we have folks who are taking a stand and saying, listen,  this isn't right, we need to do something.
And we're not ne- making a lot of progress.
But were- but they're trudging.
They're trudging along and- and so, I'm pr- very proud of the local activism that I'm seeing.
Rochester, I've seen it in  Buffalo, I've seen it in Syracuse.
Um, I have a lot of folks in my friend network who are pretty passionate about,  um, human rights issues,   black issues, um, both white and black and Latino.
You know, so,  I see that,  um,    I see, uh, a lot of investment in Rochester.
It looks like we're growing.
Besides the gentrification, I- I see  a lot of, uh,    infrastructure change.
Like investment in the city.
Um, a lot of housing being built for folks to move downtown.
And- and, uh,  Cause I don't think we've done a great job of retaining our college talent.
Um, yeah,  see?
We lost you.
Not that uh, you'd trade, uh, U of R for Stanford, but uh, um, I do see an investment,  um,  in,  uh, getting some of the,  um,  college students to stay.
I think- I think that's what the investment is really intended for.
Yeah.
So.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, yes.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
I've been told there is a Rochester accent,  that we over-pronunciate things.
Yes, that we over-pronunciate things.
Um, that it's a little extra proper.
Something like that, so.
And obviously we have our own special words.
So,  Yes.
I think, um, folks in Boston have told me that, cause I've played, uh, sports in the Boston area.
Um,  New York,  um,    who else have- has told me, uh,   I can't remember.
But I've- I've- I've played sports in all of the-  all  different places.
So,  um, I've heard it m- multiple times, that we have an accent in this area.
So, yeah.
Oh I- I think, um, Rochester's a little different from- I think it's just- I- I don't think our accents are different  around here.
In Upstate New York, or Western New York.
I think  just our- our usage of words is a little different.
You know, like, we say pop here and  Syracuse they don't say pop.
Um, I don't know if- yep I think Buffalo does.
Um,    the- what- did- uh,  thruway versus interstate.
You probably hear interstate on your side of the-   Um, versus thruway versus, uh, let's see, um, um,  cause I worked- I mean ca- because I w-  played in New York and, uh, Boston.
I think in New York they say bubbler.
For a water  drink,  uh, for a water, uh,    a fountain.
A bubbler.
A lot of people don't say so- don't say- well  I think hoagies is a-  our region.
People are like, what the heck is a hoagie?
Um,    so what else.
We- we've had these discussions again because I've b- been in New York and been in, uh,  Boston and- and they say different things than we do.
Um,    What do they call their subs  in Boston?
Mm.
That's New York.
Uh, if I think of it-  if you said it, I would know it.
It's- it's completely different.
Their liquor stores too.
They don't say liquor store.
Um, package stores.
Yeah, they're called package stores.
Nobody says liquor store, it's package store.
So.
If you want some alcohol in the Boston area you ask for a package store.
So, um.
Yeah, just- just our words are different, but I think we pretty much  have the same accents around here.
Um.
You know,  generally,  you know, if you're talking inner city accent versus, you know , suburban accent that's a little different.
Um, I don't think it's an accent.
I think it's more, um,  um, what's the right-  I- we call it code switching.
Um,  my wife points it out.
She says,  o- w- as soon as I get on the phone with my family, or she said we can be driving to their house,  and my- my language changes.
And without even thinking about it, and she's like,  it happens automatically.
Cause I don't pay attention to it.
Um, but the way I speak changes when I'm around,  um, my family, or predominantly around people of color.
So,  um.
It's without even thinking about it though,  so.
So,  it's not an accent, it's more-  I don't even like to call it like,   what's the right language.
It's just the language that I grew up with.
It's the culturual language I grew up with, so.
Yes.
And I- And I love  being able to have that dialect.
I love  being able to communicate differently with the folks I grew up with.
Um, versus the first- folks I work with, you know, so.
And I think I'm somewhere in the middle.
Like,  some of this is my natural and some of this is my natural.
Um, so it's easy for me to flex between the two.
Um, and in my most comfortable space, I think it's somewhere in the middle,  you know.
So.
Oh.
I don't think I have anything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I do.
I do.