I was born and raised here, yes.
Rochester.
Um, basically the west side,  but I've lived,  um,  three different places in my life  growing up, you know, so.
Um, I lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 Avenue, then I lived on  RD-ADDRESS-3 Avenue, and then  in the fifth grade, I moved to RD-ADDRESS-2,  and I've been there every-  well, my mom has been there every since.
Yes, oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
When I got married, I moved to RD-ADDRESS-1.
N- you know, just for a short time, and then  I bought the house  on RD-ADDRESS-3, um, twenty-two years ago.
So- I think the people  where I live at now is friendlier  than they were  when I was in RD-ADDRESS-1  cause, you know, the kids were small then.
I only had the two  when I was in RD-ADDRESS-1, but,  uh, the people were not  very nice  I would say.
Yeah, so  now, my neighbors are great.
I actually have, um, kids from RIT next-door.
So it's like a a rooming house next-door and then  on the other side  is a parole officer  so, yeah, so.
Yes.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um,  I  think they're good for the most part.
It depends on who you have  in the house.
Cause like the- the  group that I have now, I've have  a little problems with them versus the one I-  that was staying there  a couple years ago.
They were fine.
This group here is a bit wild.
Yeah.
They're a bit wild, but they're in their last year.
I- one of 'em well she's U of R.
She's going to be a doctor, and the other two  are engineers.
So-  but th- all of 'em are in their last year.
So they- I guess they're just having a little fun, so it doesn't bother me, but- The nineteenth ward is great.
There's, um,  all kinds of things that  go on.
They have little carnivals.
Um,  one on Aberdeen they have every year.
You know, they put up a stage, and the community just come and  j- they have all kind of vendors.
Any vendor can get in it.
And it  doesn't cost anything to be a vendor.
They just want you to come out.
And, um, now they're doing  I think every week like kickball  for the whole community- well, not for the whole community.
I think it's for the whole city cause-  at, uh, Genesee Park, cause yesterday they had like the east side against the west side.
So they're just showing that, you know, they can come together  and play nice, and it's not all, you know, gang banging just because you're in the city.
So,  I th- I think that's gonna- it was like fifteen hundred people there yesterday.
Yeah,  just for kickball.
So, um,  you know, it- it's just not as bad as people say it is, you know.
Definitely.
Definitely diverse.
I think years ago it was more  where I live at  was more- So where I'm at now,  um,  years ago it was  primarily black.
Like when I moved there, it was just-  all my neighbors were black.
Now it's different.
Now, you know, it's-  they're white all around me now, so  it has changed in-  a lot.
They're going out.
I think they're moving out, you know, because, I think, of the crime in the city.
They just want out.
And they might can't leave the city, th- but they can certainly maybe go to the suburbs, or just a little bit further out.
Maybe not all the way in the suburbs, but  they're moving out.
You know, and- and the white people are moving back in.
I think  because it's cheaper in the city.
You know, they went out there and those houses were not  easy to maintain and keep up and-  with today's economy with people being laid off and-  so they weren't able to keep up that lifestyle, so they had to come back.
I- in my opinion it's cheaper.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
I never worked at Kodak.
But I did work for, um, RD-WORK-2.
For RD-WORK-5.
So I worked there, and when the economy took a dive  when General Motors basically took a dive cause  th-  they were basically making these SUV's, these big cars.
So the economy went down,  so people weren't buying those SUV's because of the gas.
Gas went up, so they couldn't buy that  no more, so  a lot of people lost their jobs  from GM because they weren't selling those models anymore.
They're getting a- back to it a little bit  now, but  people don't buy 'em like they used to.
I see a lot,  um, around like call centers  where  a long time ago, you- you-  maybe one or two call centers.
Now  everyone has call centers.
So that's basically where people go to get their-  their  employment.
Lot of call centers.
Mm-mm.
Oh yeah.
They're- der- they're definitely  different, but  with a call center, you really don't need  the education  that you know, you could basically go there on a high school diploma.
So that's why a lot of people are going there.
And then those that  have lost their jobs that can't find employment, they'll go there too  cause they need a check.
They gotta pay the bills, so  you got all kind of people in the call centers.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
With degrees.
Yup.
Yup.
Okay.
Okay.
So, elementary school, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 School, which was  like  around the corner from us.
M-  my sister and I walked there.
Um,  I  think when I was younger I was at RD-SCHOOL-2, but briefly, briefly.
So RD-SCHOOL-3, I went there in the fifth grade  and, um,  I was  actually in a class with, um,    special needs kids  as a helper.
Yeah, so  now that, um, RD-NAME-3's in  school,  I encouraged her to do the same thing.
You know, just so you can, y-  you know, get- get to know them and help them and,  you know and really really appreciate.
So  she did that last year.
Well she wasn't with handicap but  she was with, uh, a few autistic kids and this and that,  which I don't know which-  was the best idea but-  because she was so young.
But I thought it was a good idea at the time, but  now I don't know  because she was taking on some of their-  their, uh, activities if they were doing in class, like you know, and I was like, where is she getting this from?
So when I went to visit her class, I saw.
I saw exactly where she wa- Where I got in to it, I was in the fifth grade.
Her- her, she was first grade so m-  maybe that was a little early, but  that- that's what I did in  elementary school.
Middle school, I- where was I in middle school?
Um,    m- uh, RD-SCHOOL-3 up in- yeah.
I was there and then, um,  from there I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Yeah.
High school.
I loved it.
I loved it cause I s- I started at the old RD-SCHOOL-3 on Clifford or whatever.
I only went there for ninth grade.
And then I went t-  they built the new one, so I was the first class at the new one.
So,  it was a trade school,  so I loved it, versus there was no other  school in the city that had a trade school.
You know, so that was the only one, mm-hm,  at the time.
So I went in there, and I took up sewing,  which I still do to this day, so  yeah.
Yeah.
For our final we had to do a fashion show, and everything we wore in the fashion show we had to make.
So, um,  I mean from the bathing suit- everything you had to make.
So that was fun.
That was really fun.
Now I still sew.
I can get a pattern and  make a outfit,  just-   cause you never forget,  cause you were there for three years  every day.
So that's something you won't forget.
Yeah, it's just in me to sew.
Yeah.
I know.
I know.
I went to criminal justice.
I don't know.
It was so much happening- starting to happen in the city that  I had- I was just drawn to it.
I was just drawn to the criminal justice.
I wanted to do more, so  you know, I did that.
I graduated,  and  then I went into RD-WORK-4  with,  uh, young kids with,  um,    problem-  behavioral problems.
Some of 'em were on probation, but  they had to report to this program every day after school.
That was part of their release or whatever.
So, um,  I did that for a couple years,  and then they let  everybody go.
They were downsizing  because of the money.
So they let everybody go that didn't have a master's degree so.
Master's degree, stay, anybody up under  was out of a job.
So that's how I ended up where I am now.
So  I'm not even in my field.
I'm doing electronics which pays good, you know, but I'm not in the field.
So, um,  you know, I'm hoping to get back in there  cause  my, uh, study was, uh, forensics.
So I was into the science part of it.
So  I just gotta get back into it, but  I wasn't a- I had to come out.
I wasn't able to finish w- for-  RD-SCHOOL-2 because  RD-NAME-2 was in college, and I was going back and forth.
And then RD-NAME-2 was in college.
Then RD-NAME-2 went to MCC.
So I had all three of them  in college at the same time.
So I had to back up off cause I had to- you know,  I had to make sure they got theirs.
That was more important, so.
So.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah.
That's the sacrifices you make, so, you know, I don't- RD-NAME-2's out now but,  you know, she was still there in Charlotte alone,  so I was still helping her,  you know, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh, I definitely think it's getting worse.
S-  definitely getting worse because,  um, I-  I mean you've always had shootings, but it's like  every other day,  there's something.
And I- I don't know if I wasn't into the news when I was smaller,  and- so it didn't impact me as much, but now  because n- you know, my kids know some of these kids that are being killed, that they went to high school with and  elementary s- so  now I'm more in tune to it because I know the kids.
So, um,  yeah.
I definitely think it's getting worse.
Yeah.
Y- Oh, well, they put in all kinds of cameras,  so they got these, um,    sound-  they got- I don't know, those aren't cameras, but they pick up sound.
So they can pick up a gunshot.
And then they got the cameras all around, so  maybe that's  they- I- I don't know if they put it there to  deter  people, cause it doesn't.
It doesn't.
Or to help them  maybe catch them.
So a few of 'em has worked,  you know,  helped solve some cases but  there's still far too many that s-  goes unsolved  that- And- and I  think that's one of the reasons why  I was so into the forensics  because I'm like,  you got the evidence, why- you know,  I need to get in there.
I need to solve this, but  I don't- I don't know why so many goes  unsolved.
Very younger.
Very young.
I don't know why they're so  angry,  you know, definitely they're angry over nothing, whereas,  you know, when I was younger, we would fist fight.
The- you would never think of going to get a gun, or,  you know, maybe you might hear of a stabbing, but you never heard of a shooting somebody  your age.
But now it's just nothing for the kids to hear that,  so.
Yeah, they don't- I don't know, they don't fear anything.
Why?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I heard some interesting stories when I worked  with pass-  RD-WORK-4 with the kids because,  you know, most of 'em were on probation, and,  you know, you have to get to the root cause, why.
You know, why- why are you doing what you do, so,  you know, one girl,  you know, every day she would come in, sign in with me, and she just sat there in front of me.
So  she had got in trouble again,  so I was like, you know I have to report this to the judge  that you got in trouble again.
So, um,  I would have to go to court and report it.
So  I was like, well what's going on with you?
Why are you so angry?
She told me that her dad was molesting her since she was five.
And I think she was like fourteen at the time.
I was like, what?
Does your mother know?
She said, yeah,  and my dad's beating my mother.
So I was like,   I understand you told me this in confidence  but  I can't-  I can't keep this information.
So  I had to go to my boss and tell him what she told me.
So, you know, she was like, I know.
But I think that was just her way of  saying a-  enough is enough.
I'm tired.
And she knew I had to go report that.
I couldn't keep it just between the two of us.
So,  you know, it- it m-  it made me realize, okay, she's been fighting all these years,  and she's been angry, but the root problem was  what's going on at home with her dad  and her mom being beat up.
So,  um,  there's- there's reasons why they're out there doing it.
Somebody just  has to be-  has to get to the root cause, what's going on.
Yeah.
Yeah, I see 'em because they're right in the neighborhood,  so I see 'em a lot.
And they remember me and  I remember the- I- is- one of 'em visits  uh one of my neighbors across the street.
From mommy house, not my house.
But,  she visits over there.
So she still remembers me.
But that  particular little girl, I never saw her again  after I left there.
So her dad was friends with my boss.
Her dad actually worked there.
Mm-hm.
He worked there.
Yup.
Yup.
He was like a ride along in the police cars.
Her dad was.
So he was there for the meetings every week.
So-  and then I had to  aft-  after that,  cause nothing happened right away.
You know, they have to investigate stuff before.
So I would see him.
Like-  like, really?
You know, so  it was hard.
It was a hard job working with the kids cause you get attached.
You know, you see 'em every day.
You want the best for 'em.
So you kind of get attached to 'em, and so it's bad when  you hear something like that.
But I bet it's more of that going on with the kids.
We just-  they just won't tell nobody.
Yeah, know.
So- your dad.
And you don't know what's gonna happen to you cause you know, okay yeah, he'll go to jail, but what's gonna happen to me?
So.
Oh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
I've noticed,  uh, the kids, when I was smaller,  we were outside.
Go outside and play.
We rode bikes.
We had bikes.
We roller skate outside.
We were hula hooping, jump roping,  playing in the street, you know, football and kickball.
You don't see that anymore.
You don't see it at all.
So I have no kids on my street playing, none.
Not one out there playing.
So  I think that's changed it a lot.
You don't see it no more.
I do think they're getting worse, um,  you know, there's a lot of like bullying  I would say  that's going on in these schools, with the younger ones.
So,  you know,  I- I know even, uh, my granddaughter, RD-NAME-3,  at camp she kept saying, I don't wanna go cause this girl talked about me and this and that and the-  and, you know, it's bad when you can't go to camp  and enjoy yourself  because you got people that are picking on you for whatever reason.
So I just say, well maybe she's jealous,  or maybe, you know, I don't know why she's bullying, but  I would imagine that's why, you know, so.
I- I think that's- that's changing.
It's more violence there.
You know, kids are  committing suicide at young ages.
So it's- it's stuff that's going on in the schools and on the internet and-  so.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
I- better jobs.
They're going because of the economy I think.
Yeah.
I don't think it's more so the violence.
I just think, okay, I done went to school for all these years.
You know, I wanna be able to make a decent salary, and there's no guarantee staying here you're gonna do that.
Years ago, yes.
Yeah, you woulda-  you woulda been  good.
But now  you gotta fight for it here,  you know.
So  there's no guarantees here.
Um,  not off hand.
I can't think of anything.
Mm-hm.
Well I know when they came they had to stay with- my dad stayed with his brother,  um,  and my mom came, and  they didn't have a car, so they caught the bus and-  you know, s-  the- all of the-  I- I don't  ever remember  having to catch the bu-  you know what I'm saying.
I d- I don't have room to- I didn't go through that  because,  you know, by the time I was like eighteen, I had a car, so.
You know, they- she said, oh no I caught the bus, it was midnight.
I would have to, you know,  catch the bus.
I was getting in at midnight  from work  on- on the bus and stuff.
So  I  think  that's different,  you know,  cause I can't- I can't relate.
So,  you know, they just worked hard and made sure  that I didn't have to do that.
You know, so, um,  that's basically it.
Once they,  um, both got  jobs, then, you know, they were  out on their own, and  then they  had an apartment on RD-ADDRESS-2 then they bought an apa-  had an apartment on RD-ADDRESS-3  then they bought this house.
So  they actually bought the house for seventeen thousand dollars.
Six bedroom house,  three bathrooms,  seventeen thousand year- you know, back then.
So  that was crazy.
You- so they payed their house off real quick because she was at Kodak,  and he was in construction, so  it was basically a steal.
Yeah.
Yeah, big old hou-  there's no way you're gonna buy a house that big now for seventeen thousand.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Terrible.
You don't want it anyway.
So, yeah.
So, there-  there's different  from when,  you know,  I was eighteen,  you know.
So they had to struggle more.
I'm into jazz, live music.
So there's a lot of jazz here.
This is a jazz town.
If you like it then it's here.
Um,  they have a lot of bands  around town, so  a lot of, uh, restaurants  where, uh- you know, I love Park Avenue.
And I love East Avenue, just going and sitting outside, eating and  watching the people walk by, so  I like that.
You can eat here.
You can go to church here.
You know,  it's tons of churches, so yeah.
It's a lot to do here, um,  musically.
And I- I think this is a music town.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, that's huge.
That's huge.
That just brings millions of people.
I love it.
I didn't-  I didn't go this year.
I don't know what I was doing, but  I- I rolled by  but I n- I didn't go to any of the  concerts.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That was good?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Right, sh-  yeah.
Yeah, right  Yeah.
I like her though.
I saw her years ago in Cincinnati.
Yeah.
Uh, Cincinnati like jazz festival.
Me and RD-NAME-2 got off one Friday.
She called me.
Let's go to a jazz festival.
So I was like, I gotta get my stuff together.
She was playing on Saturday.
So we got off work,  got our clothes together, hit the road, went to Cincinnati to see her.
It was good though.
She was good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Oh, she's good.
Yeah, she's good.
Yup.
Wow.
Yeah the- so n-  mostly jazz is- they have some singers, but mainly it's music, you know, without the singing or whatever.
So  I love it though.
Mm.
Yeah, here.
Mm-hm.
They're all over, just  un- d- last weekend I was in Webster, they  shut down Main Street  and just had a stage  and all day they had bands.
All day.
So up until like eleven or twelve o'clock at night.
So it was really nice It was in- o-  Webster on Main Street  in Webster.
Yeah.
Yeah, this was Webster.
Mm yup.
That was nice, so.
I went fourth of July on Chili Avenue, they had a stage,  and that was all music all day long.
They had little things for the kids like bounce houses, and stuff, but  yeah, that was nice.
And then they had the fireworks right after that.
So that  and  then you have your sports teams like,  you know, the Red Wings,  you got the Lancers,  and, uh, RazorSharks.
So we got our te- Amerks,  the- hockey.
So  it's a sports town too.
And then you got the Buffalo Bills that are here now  in their training camp.
So you go out to Fisher now, you can't-  you can't get down the road  cause everybody's at the training camp, so.
It's good.
Definitely.
There's always something to do, and it's something for everybody.
So if you say, I don't have anything to do, well, you know,   you just gotta get out and get in,  you know- get in the mix, so.
And that's me.
I stay.
I stay in it.
I love the festivals.
No.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a lot to do.
It is.
It's a lot.
Yeah.
Okay.
The- s-  They say I sound like I'm from New York.
Where- I don't hear the accent here, cause it- you know, this is me born and raised, but  when I go other places to South,  I definitely hear it.
I'm like, woah.
You know, it's definitely a difference, but  I don't-  I don't hear it here with  the people I live around, so.
Yeah.
It- Y- I know, um,  one girl that I work with is from Puerto Rico, and it ju- and she's been here like twenty years, but  some things, I'll say, what?
You know,  cause I don't understand.
And, you know, I don't know if she slips back into her other language or what, but  some things I just don't understand what she says,  so.
I hope not.
I hope not, no.
Uh, no I try not to but-  cause  they still have that slang.
They still say words like, really?
You know, it's just really slang and,  you know,  ice box for frigerator.
I'm like, dad it's a frigerator.
It's not out-  Th- he'll say, close that box.
You know, and  my kids know, cause a- they grown u- I know but i-  it's not a box.
It's  not.
It's a refrigerator.
So yeah, they still have that Southern accent.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, okay, so  how many people have you interviewed here?
Oh wow.
Okay.
And have the questions been  different like-  very different?
Mm-hm.
Okay.
Mm.
Oh good.
Oh good.
So it- just based on  where they grew up and who they grew up with, then it's gonna be different.
Oh okay, so is it helping your paper?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Okay.
And w-  you answering the questions, cause you were born and raised here too.
But you've been gone a long time, so is it different for you now?
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Do you remember, when you were younger, like going downtown to midtown  and seeing the monorail and  then you see all that's gone.
You know, the monorail's gone.
Santa with l-  the big old mountain or whatever.
So you took the kids there  every  year.
So now you can go to the mall basically, but that's different.
You don't have those things you had even when you were smaller.
So I- I can't take my grandkids to that cause it's- it's just all gone.
So.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
And they d- I don't know.
I don't know what they're putting there.
I- I thought Paychecks was going there or something.
I'm not sure if they decided on that but,  you know, I  n- know, even as a kid it was there when I was there.
I loved it.
Loved it.
The balloons.
They had like, uh, clear balloon.
It had this little red thing on the inside.
Every year I went for that.
Kazoos.
They had the l- noise makers.
So, you know, I just, um,  it's a shame I can't- my kids- my grandkids can't have that same experience.
Cause I took my kids every year.
I know they remember that.
So  n- now, RD-NAME-3 and them growing up, I'm like, I gotta make some kind of memories for them  cause that's gone.
So yeah, we go see Santa at the mall, but it's just,  you stand in a line, and then what?
You pay for those high pictures and then   that's it.
That's- Yeah.
They're not gonna have that same-  those same memories,  you know, they gonna have Santa or whatever, but- the easter bunny, but they know  that it's somebody in that costume, so it's nothing else for them.
Then they got these little statues standing there, but  it's not that much.
It's not huge like riding a monorail.
You know, it's not like that,  so.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
And I got 'em dressed.
They had to wear something red  cause they had to take the picture with Santa.
And then we had to walk up this mountain to get to him.
You know, he was up at the top or whatever.
So, um, yeah I still dress 'em.
They'll still wear red or whatever, but we're going to see Santa at the mall.
So they're not really into it.
So- even at six,  whereas at six when I was younger, I couldn't wait to get there.
So that- that's a big difference.
It's nothing.
They have the Strong Museum though, so that changes- that changes, um,  but there's a lot of things in there that's the same, but,  you know, they try to change it up a little bit,  but, I don't know.
You know, Christmas time, it still isn't,  you know, as big as it used to be.
You know, so.
We still do like  the Easter egg hunts at the house so I still, you know, take 'em to church, do the Easter- cause that's what I did.
That's what my kids did,  and so  I'm tryna  help them make,  you know, s-  those kinds of memories.
So it's important but gotta find it, you know.
You gotta find it, so.
Mm-hm.
Susan B.
Anthony House.
I've never been in there.
And it's right up the street.
What?
I've never.
I'm like I-  I gotta do- they do tours all the time.
But, you know, maybe that- maybe that is something to do, something that I've never done, so  yeah.
Yeah.
that-  me too.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
That was nice.
It's a nice house, lot of history there, but  mainly, you have to take 'em outside of Rochester to  see that,  you know, so.
I-  I took RD-NAME-3 to this farm where  the whole farm is like,  um,  I don't-  I don't know plantations, but  it was those type of houses.
They were shacks, and, um, you went inside and somebody was  making clothes and  somebody was, um,  making bread from scratch.
So they got see all those thing- every house,  they were doing something different.
So one guy was doing glass  from  things that they did  years ago when  they didn't have the stores an-  so they would let them  help them cut out a pattern for a shirt or whatever.
Then you went to the next house.
She, uh,  let them  help her  knead the bread and,  you know,  so  that- that was nice for them.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can't remember what  the name of that farm was.
But it was freezing when we went to it.
It was so cold.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's nothing in the city.
There's- you know, the public market is huge.
You know the- it's been there forever.
Forever.
Now the west side has one on Genesee Street at Saint Monica's every Tuesday.
So you know, that- that's nice.
They- they try to ge- and it- and all the stuff is  from  people in the nineteenth ward.
Everything is grown from people in the nineteenth ward, so, you know, and then they take it out there and they sell it  at their little vendors, so  that's nice.
Yeah, I was speaking with this lady, uh, RD-NAME-3 and I was walking,  and she was telling me, have you been there?
I said, no.
And she was saying, well you gotta go  cause it's all nineteenth ward, so.
I still haven't been though, but I forget.
Cause I go on Saturdays, so I get what I need.
I never- by Tuesday, I'm not out, so.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You've been to that?
Yeah.
That's great.
Oh really?
Oh wow.
I know they have a band out there and stuff, so you have to, you know, look and see who's playing at night, but-  so.
I- I went years ago,  but I haven't been since then,  you know.
I l- one time, that was it.
It was kind of crowded then though.
It was a lot of people just sitting out in chairs and relaxing.
So it's still some nice things to do to- even during the week.
On a Wednesday, you go to   you know, rodeo, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
So.
Yeah.
y- it's still around.
Th- that- that's good they didn't let a few bad ones just ruin everything,  so.
That's still out there.
I get out there.
I'm not afraid cause I figure, if it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen, so.
You can't just stay in the house be afraid to do  things,  you know, so.
Ye- Oh yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Good.
You're welcome.