Yes, I do.
Mm.
Yeah.
Um,  well, I mean, recently I just realized that I've lived all over Rochester.
Um, but I can say, my early part of Rochester  was over by the- um,  the transit station, where all the buses usually go for like the night.
Uh, grew up in like, the projects over there off of RD-ADDRESS-4.
And, um, I mean,  growing up, I mean, it just seems like  it's-  you know, that's just where we live.
It's not until like, you know, you grow older and you realize, oh,  we were in like, subsidized housing.
Oh,  it was a lot of drug activity going on.
Oh,  so and so that I used to slap up at the corner store,  was actually like,  the drug dealer on the block.
Um,   I mean, because like, at the end, like they- they were always respectable.
Cause like, you know, this- this is their neighborhood.
Their family lives next door, like.
So, um,  gro- uh, growing up over there was just kind of really-  it was childhood.
Like, you go outside, you play with all the other kids in the projects.
Learn how to double dutch, and play jacks,  hide and seek, tag.
You know, you have your little drama that little kids have.
I don't like you.
I don't like you either.
Come back the next day and it's all good.
Um,   I guess like, what I notice also though is like,  my household was different than everyone else's.
I mean,  pretty much nobody had a father in a household, but in the fact of,  my mom always kept me, well kept, like,   had nice,  you know, clothes.
I had stuff you know I'd go out and play in, but like  I knew what I was eating at night.
Like, never had to worry about meals.
And once I started realizing, that that was different for the other kids,  that kind of like,  shedded a light  in seeing seeing um,  really like the age difference.
Starting to notice the age difference between  my mom and the other moms.
My mom  I guess you can say,  to me, she wasn't that much older.
Like, my mom had me when she was twenty-nine.
I feel like that's around like,  the ideal time to really have kids.
But um,  realizing that,  the other parents were like,  in their  twenties, early twenties,  some teens.
Um, some having  teenage daughters already, and having  kids, and like the daughters having to take care of the kids.
Um,  so it's th- I can- I started noticing those type of differences.
Not really,  judging or anything.
It's just like,  oh,  okay, Mommy's older than that person.
Not knowing  that's probably why they're in the situations that they're in.
Um,  after that, what ended up happening was, um,  my mom ended up getting locked up for two and a half years.
So after that, I ended up moving with my aunt.
My aunt owned a house over off of RD-ADDRESS-6.
By like Pudgie's  and, um,  it was literally like, if you cross the street you're in RD-ADDRESS-4  and then like, you come back across the street, you're in RD-ADDRESS-3 technically.
So, um,  that neighborhood- that neighborhood gave me more of like, uh,  the freedom to like, explore.
It was like, okay, it's okay for the kids to go and ride their bikes, as long as they're in-  It's okay to go outside, and play in the yard.
Um,  I guess,  really my only issue there was like, the actual living situation that I went through.
Um, within my family,  I'm the- I'm the youngest  grandchild, and also like  the youngest  like that my mom had.
Um,  but a lot of-  a lot of the time,  my other cousins were like, jealous of me.
Based off of,  basically I'm a only child because it's a fourteen year gap between my brother,  and me.
Um, also my mom had my brother when she was fifteen.
So instead of allowing my mom to be a mom,  everybody else in the family, felt like  they wanted to raise him.
Um,  but when my mom had me, she was like, no,  I'm gonna raise him.
And me and my brother, turned out completely different.
Uh, so  it's a lot of- it was- it's just a lot of weird things that- that went on that like now I look back, and I'm like  oh, okay,  that's what that was, that's why this is.
But growing up, it was really just like,   I don't know.
Like I remember just being that kid that's just like, hey,  I wanna be friends with everybody,  and- and doing that, and really like  understanding like  I don't understand why this person is being mean to me right now, but  I don't like this feeling, so I kind of have to  you know, protect myself.
And that's when I learned a lot, when I was living with my aunt.
Definitely put me in a space in where,  I had to learn to fend for myself.
I had to-  And again,  it's not that  I was-  I mean, I- it- it was completely different from my mom's place.
Like,  I never had to ask for food at my mom's place.
Like  I go, I get what I want.
Like,  it's mine, like   um, there I would have to ask if I want a snack, if I want this.
Oh, you can only have one glass of water.
You can only- like,  you can only do this.
Now it's time to eat.
Sit down and eat all of this.
Oh, now it's time to do homework.
Oh, you can't watch TV even though you finished your homework, cause J.R.
didn't finish his homework, and he's gonna be distra- Like,  it was just a lot of different rules, and a lot of different living situations that I didn't have to live with- like, never had to deal with.
So it was definitely a big,  adjustment for me.
And then on top of that,  um,  money that my mom  left  for me, to ensure that,  you know, nobody else had to come out of pocket to take care of me, understanding that,  that wasn't being spent on me.
That was being spent elsewhere.
So,  in that time, ironically, I ended up basically living like  the kids from the projects.
Like,  I would go weeks and weeks at a time without having my hair done.
Um,  rips in my clothes, stuff like that.
And now mind you, my aunt's kids  be fine.
Wearing Jordans, doing this, doing that.
Um,  but again, I never really-  never really thought about it, y- you just kind of like, okay I'm a kid.
Um,  but I can say,  I remember it was just one night, where like, I was crying myself to sleep and I was just like, I don't wanna feel this anymore.
Like, just tired of it.
And I think that is  the night, that like, I realize like,  one, how strong I was, and really like my resilience.
Like,  so,  from that- that I can say,  if I didn't have that,  I don't really know  where I would be right now.
I would say like,  I face adversity.
But like, that was like  that defining moment for me.
Um,  after my mom came back home,  uh,  I mean, I was different,  it's two and a half years later,  was turning twelve.
Um,  we moved  over-  was living with my grandma for a bit, so that was off of RD-ADDRESS-2,  um, by Salvatore's.
I love Salvatore's.
Um,  so it was over by Salvatore's.
And  being back with my mom,  it was a bit different, because  she didn't really understand how much I had matured, what had exactly happened to me, and I couldn't really explain it to her.
Um,  and then she also was trying to like, make up for lost time.
And I think that probably one of the realest conversations we ever had.
It was mostly like, Ma like,  you just gotta stop.
Like,  I don't fault you for anything, and you can't make up for lost time.
Like,  we can move on from, where we're at now.
And get to re-know each other.
But like,  basically like,  the reason my mom ended up going to jail, was making sure that she was taking care of me in the first place.
So like,  not ever gonna fault you,  for that.
Cause we got,  parents out here that's  not willing to do that.
And,  my mom is a pretty much like, by any means necessary type of person.
So, um,    we moved in  with my grandma,  and my aunt,  into like this big house.
And that's when we moved over off  RD-ADDRESS-2 off of  RD-ADDRESS-2.
Now this area,  this I can say, is really like, the first time I moved away from the east side.
Um,  I don't know, it's just,  RD-ADDRESS-3 is kind of like the-  it's like the quirky area of Rochester.
Like,  pretty much anything can happen on RD-ADDRESS-3.
Um,  but,  the living was nice and then, uh,  really what ended up happening was the stuff that happened over the two and a half years, came to a bubble between my aunt and my mom.
And  they got into it, my mom's like, alright we moving.
But we stayed over in the RD-ADDRESS-2 area, moved off of RD-ADDRESS-2,  which was really quiet.
I realized that I like the RD-ADDRESS-2 a lot.
RD-ADDRESS-2 is really a nice place.
Um, even- even like now, I'm just like, yeah, let's go to RD-ADDRESS-2.
Now they got a lot of, uh, restaurants and a lot of different stuff over there.
Um,  but yeah, we lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 in the RD-ADDRESS-2 and then we moved on RD-ADDRESS-1 in the RD-ADDRESS-2.
And in this time I was going through middle school.
At this time, me and my mom's relationship was more stable.
We had been together a while.
Um,  you know, mm,  going through teenage things.
Um,  and then what ended up happening was,  the income that we had in the house got cut tremendously.
So we had to move from our place on RD-ADDRESS-1, and find something that was more feasible.
So we ended up moving,  to  RD-ADDRESS-5.
Which is like,  hood central basically.
Um,  and  at first, I was a little like wary about it, because like,  growing up it's like,  y- you don't-  you drive through those places.
You don't go and you- you know, live in those places.
But,  that's pretty much been  where  well, my mom's been.
I've moved out of the house since then.
But my mom is literally still there, and sh-  don't nobody bother her.
It's-  you know, stuff happens around, in the neighborhood,  but,  it's not bad.
And- and- and that's what I started realizing.
Like,  yeah, people say a lot about  the environment, but it's- it's- it's not bad.
You get to see-  yeah you got the same people that's doing the same thing, but then you got people who are  doing-  doing it.
Like,  um, I done seen like people done graduated and seen people  go.
Move on to bigger and better things.
Move out of  the state, move  across town to a better house.
Like,  so, um,  yeah I would say  like,  RD-ADDRESS-5,  definitely, really-  I don't know.
It made me really appreciate  the beauty in the ugly.
Cause like you look at it, and it's just like,   this could be so much better.
It's like, run-down houses.
I actually wro- ended up writing a poem, literally like, based on my street.
Um,  it's like run-down houses everywhere, and then it's like you get to know the people.
You get to know their story.
You get to see their story develop from being there- over there for so long.
You're just like,  you know, all these people  pretty much just like me.
They trying to make it.
Some people know how, some people don't.
And, um,  yeah.
Right now,  I mean, the places that I've moved,  since I've moved out, I lived out in Canandaigua.
Um,  I lived out there for like six months.
That was-  I didn't like that.
I got into a lot of trouble in Canandaigua, just because it's  nothing there.
Like,  um,    ended up moving back.
Moving in with my mom,  and then I moved,  um,  over on,  oh, I can't think of the name of it.
RD-ADDRESS-3  I moved on RD-ADDRESS-3,  uh, with a few friends.
And that was different because,  again,  pretty much I've been on the east side.
And  in Rochester it's kind of like,  you could spot somebody from the east side, if they're on the west side, and if you're on the west side, you can spot somebody on the east side.
It's a weird type of thing.
So,  I don't know.
I thi- it's- it's- it's kind of like- I think it's really more like-  like- like mannerisms, like if you let like the stereotypical tell you like,  east side,  it's-  that's like the dirty side.
You know, like, the west side, you know, that's where you got all the flashy stuff and the nice houses.
I mean,  it's kind of true.
Like it's definitely like, if you-  For me it's always been like, looking at the people on the corner.
Like,  if you go to the west side,  you're liable to see a dude like, decked out in jewelry or whatever, just standing on the corner.
He looks nice, he looks  like,  they care about their appearance.
You're on the east side,  dude been trapping in the same outfit for seven days.
Don't mean he don't got no money.
It's just  it's kind of like what they do.
I don't know, it's weird, it's very weird.
Um,  so moving on  the west side for the first time,  was a bit uneasy because I'm like, I probably stick out like a sore thumb, because  I mean, like, I've only been on the east side.
I don't even know like,  the backstreets over here.
So I'm just like, alright, go to school, go to work,  walk to the corner store, that's about it.
Um,  and then it kind of just like, kind of went away.
I started realizing that's really just a mentality.
Like, it's like,  I done been everywhere.
So,  you know what I mean?
Like,  what am I scared of?
It's not that I'm of scared of anything.
It's like, uh, it was just a little uneasy.
Um, from there, I ended up moving into Brighton,  for about a few months.
Moved over across from RD-ADDRESS-3 and RD-ADDRESS-3.
And that-  that reminded me of Canandaigua.
The people did not want us there.
Like, they would make  absurd complaints about us.
Oh,  there's a weed smell coming from their apartment,  their dogs are barking.
Now mind you,  can't possibly be a weed smell because  my roommate's at work.
I dropped him off there.
He didn't have a car.
And I'm currently at school, while I'm talking on the phone.
The dogs are not there.
So I'm like, alright,  this is like, some like,  profiling type junk.
And, um,  in the end, it ended up getting really bad, but, uh, went in and basically was like look, y'all don't want us here.
Don't lie to me.
And   we don't wanna be here, honestly.
So, uh, we agreed to like, terminate the lease.
And, uh, we moved  and ended up moving on RD-ADDRESS-3, which is in the RD-ADDRESS-2 again.
And that-  that was like-  that-  that was- I would probably say that was home.
Like,  over there it was right behind RD-ADDRESS-5.
I used to wake up in the morning,  jog around the block.
S- I'm like,  I could walk- I wake up and jog around the block.
That's cool.
Um,  a lot of just  friendly people, like you just walk down the street and people just,  hey how you doing?
Hey, how you doing?
I don't know you.
Probably won't ever see you again.
But it was just-  it was just different.
I could say like, living in all these different places in Rochester, you kind of really-  Rochester seems divided,  or it's- seems like it's being portrayed to be divided,  but really,  everybody knows somebody in some type of way.
Um,  definitely  being, um,  in the arts, like community, you start realizing that  really really quick like, oh you know so and so?
Yeah I know so and so.
Oh okay.
Or you go to a show  other people pop up.
Hey what's up?
Hey what's up?
So it's, um,  mm  that's-  Well, right now I'm living on RD-ADDRESS-3,  which is a new part of Rochester that I haven't lived in.
Over on like the northeast side.
It's pretty quiet though.
I like it.
Very homey.
Yeah that's kind of  all the places that I've lived in Rochester.
Definitely more of a city guy.
I don't like the- nah, the- the suburbs, or I don't even know what you call Canandaigua.
You can't  Yeah I'm like, I need-  I need people.
I need like community.
Definitely like community.
Mm-hm Um,  honestly, my mom picked every single school that I went to.
Um,  so it started of with pre-K at RD-SCHOOL-3.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-4,  um, from K through second.
After RD-SCHOOL-4, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, from third until six.
At RD-SCHOOL-2, is where  I started realizing why I was different from other people.
Cause like,  I was in fourth grade literally like a week.
And they come up to me and are like,  have you ever heard about the RD-SCHOOL-3?
And I'm like,  no.
And they're like   so Monday, you're gonna go into this new class, and you're gonna sh- I'm like, I didn't even get to start with this new class yet.
And they're like, no.
We're doi- we're giving you the work and you're just basically sitting there cause you're getting it done.
I'm like, okay so what's the RD-SCHOOL-3?
And they basically broke it down.
It's the RD-SCHOOL-7.
You'll learn,  um, at a faster rate.
And you'll learn, you know, stuff like a grade ahead of you.
I'm like,  okay cool.
So I go,  I shadow this program.
Everybody's looking at me like  I'm a test subject, because they've already been here.
They already been with these kids.
So I'm the new guy.
Um,  and I decided to do it really because like,  the other class was really just, so boring.
And then I get into this RD-SCHOOL-1 class and I'm like, alright.
What I liked about that is really  even though the work- I mean, I- it still wasn't really that much more challenging for me,  I found teachers that would  teach me things that are challenging, even if it's on like a individual level.
So,  um, fourth grade is where I first learned how to play chess.
Um,  fifth grade I put a whole- Um, we dissected like, owl pellets.
And I got to put like a whole skeletal system of a vole together.
Which  w- was dope.
And then, um, in sixth grade I learned, uh, there's this game called Magic the Gathering.
It's like a card game.
I ended up learning that.
And by the time I got, um,  into sixth grade, my mom had heard that RD-SCHOOL-4 was talking about doing a middle school  for seventh and eighth.
So I started a interview process.
Got to shadow at the high school.
Which was cool cause I mean, sixth grade, I'm in high school for a day.
I'm the man.
Um,  and I ended up getting into  the middle school.
Start at seventh grade,  went through to eighth grade, and then  went to ninth grade.
Um,  the middle school for RD-SCHOOL-4  tried to like embody the high school like philosophy,  but  didn't end up really working out too well.
Um, I remember like, my grade- well, like- yeah my grade, or my class  was pretty much like the- the test subjects for certain things.
Okay,  we're gonna have them  move like this.
Okay that didn't work.
Okay we're gonna have them do- So it was a lot of just constant changing.
Um, but the plus side, we did keep the same teachers.
Like, our teachers moved up with us.
So like second year and eighth grade I didn't have to learn  new names, or new people, or  they didn't have to re-figure me out.
But once I got into the high school, the high school-  the high school is really where I would say I thrived,  because it allowed me to find myself as a individual.
It allowed me to work  at my own pace.
Um,  and it opened a lot of different opportunities.
Like, um,  I've always been into art.
So,  I think it was like,  by my tenth grade, I had maxed out all the art classes at my high school.
So my art teacher went and got me into a program where I took art classes with a guy who studied at Disney.
His name was RD-NAME-4.
Um,  and he offered  a certain amount of scholarships to  city school kids.
So for that year, I basically got to  learn under him  human forms, shading, and all this other stuff.
What I didn't know  was  after that he basically  hand picked who he wanted to come to his actual advanced class.
So my eleventh grade year,  I ended up really like,  diving into like  still lifes, and  sculpting, and all this different stuff.
And I was like, oh this is cool.
And it's stuff that like,  working with  oil paints, and mineral spir- These are things you would never work with,  like actually in school.
So I got to really really dive into like my interests.
Um,  got to play football.
Always played football.
Played football from like seven until seventeen.
Um, going to RD-SCHOOL-4 you're like, we don't have a football team, but    we'll get you into RD-SCHOOL-2.
So I played football for RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  I mean, I found poetry at RD-SCHOOL-4.
Um, I wanna say that was a mistake, but seeing as how my life turned out, can't be a mistake.
Uh,  I don't know.
RD-SCHOOL-4 is really-  like I said, it was really based off the individual.
I mean, I- I meet people that are like,  RD-SCHOOL-4 didn't teach me anything.
And I'm like,  uh, no, I remember you being there.
You didn't wanna learn anything.
Um,  I had  the math teacher- the math teacher  I was  up  in- in- when I got to the middle school, I skipped up a grade in  math.
So seventh grade year, I was actually in the eighth grade class with the eighth graders taking math.
And then my eighth grade year, they had to get me a, um,  one on one like math teacher.
So when I got into the high school, I was already just like  a one year ahead.
So by the time I got to eleventh grade,  they had to have the math teacher- he would give me-  first he was like, well,  since you took this stuff last year, you have to teach your peers.
So I would teach them.
And then he was like, based off of how well and how quick you teach them, then I'll teach you calculus.
And I'm like, okay so first, you know, I'm not really learning nothing because I'm not teaching well.
But eventually, um,  he taught me- he taught me calculus and I'm sitting here I'm like, okay,   derivatives  huh,  okay.
And, um,  the thing about RD-SCHOOL-4 is we don't take Regents.
So, we had-  from ninth grade until eleventh grade, you kept a portfolio basically  all of your work.
Um, eleventh grade year,  you would have  what they called I-  I think it was like your summative portfolio.
Where you would display  your knowledge  in something in  all four areas.
Science,  social studies, English, math.
And each one had a core like requirement.
So science you had to develop an original experiment,  carry the whole experiment out,  and then come back and report your findings.
Social Studies, you had to complete a ten page research paper.
Which,  oh my gosh,    I was-  I mean, my research paper ended up being fun, but it was just like, oh   ten pages,   ah.
Stay tuned for college.
Um,  um,  English, English it was- you had to write  a thesis paper, and then you had to defend it against the English teachers.
And then, uh, math, you had to basically apply  a real-life application problem.
And since I was doing calculus,  my teacher's like, okay so,  meteors coming to strike the earth.
You have to intercept it at the right time, so it'll fall, and I'm like,  this is big.
This is big.
Um,  but the thing that I realized was like,  they were looking for  the work.
The- the- the- the-  the attempt, the effort,  the  okay,  this isn't working,  go back and correct it.
They weren't really like,  you need to have the right answer to pass.
And that was-  I would say that was also another like character building moment, because  I remember seeing a lot of people just like, break down and just start crying.
I'm just like,  dude you got corrections.
We all got corrections.
If you sit here and cry about it, you're gonna stay in eleventh grade.
And like, I don't wanna stay in eleventh grade.
Or I don't wanna have to redo any of this over.
So like,  alright, go back and make your corrections.
And then, um,  after you pass it,  it was pretty much like okay,  senior year you have your senior project.
And senior project, you had to pick  some type of skill, or talent that you had  no background in.
And you did it for  eight months.
And at the end, you'll have- um,  you'll have like a final meeting.
So basically you would have to get  two community experts,  based off of whatever your project was.
You would have to get  two advisors, who are  teachers in the building.
And then you would have to have two students.
And  the idea was  you would want  the students to be juniors.
So like,  before I got to my senior year, I sat on probably like five different senior committees, really, so you kno- understand and know what it looks like and how the process goes.
Um, my senior project was capoeira.
Which, uh, that year I ended up quitting football because  I had to focus on that and I couldn't get injured.
Um,  and  the senior project is re- was another- Like,  I could say RD-SCHOOL-4 definitely f- I found my identity and- and- and  developed, again, like a lot of- a lot of different character,  uh,  traits.
It's like,  okay,  I know I don't really feel like waking up  on  Sunday afternoon to go do this,  knowing that Sundays is  Crossfit workout days and  I gotta go to school tomorrow.
And then, m- also senior year I had a job.
And I'm just like,   alright.
Um,  but luckily like senior year I didn't really have much classes  because I had- um,  like I said, you work at your own pace.
So,  I was just racking up credits in my first three years.
Getting whatever I needed out the way  so senior year, I could have that like relax time and focus really just on my project, but still, it's still-  I mean, it still was a push.
Like,  you still  are  a seventeen year old, eighteen year old like,  okay I got all this free time, or  I'm ahead of the game, so  I'm'a just slack a little bit.
And I guess it was really just  making sure that I'm just like, no,  no, I gotta hold myself accountable, I still got this.
Um,  graduating RD-SCHOOL-4 and going into college,  and really the real world, cause when I went into college I was going to school, but I was also  at that time, like really working and supporting myself.
It developed me for the real world.
I remember,  um, I went to RD-SCHOOL-4  sitting in freshman seminar and these kids are like, ha,  I gotta go home and have my mom wash my clothes because I don't know how.
And I'm like,  what do you mean?
What are you talking about?
Or, oh, I gotta go and ask so-and-so for money because- I'm like,  you don't have a job.
Oh my gosh,  this college campus is literally your world.
Like,  you don't-  you don't know there's so much  like literally less than ten miles away from you.
Like,  you've never been to the city.
You've just been-  you haven't even been to Fairport.
You're just  in this bubble, in this dome.
And that,  that right there made me realize- I'm like oh,   like,  you can be book smart,  but like,  there's a different type of something out here,  that you definitely need in life.
And it's like, luckily I have it, but I don't know how to convey it or express it to these people.
And, um,  my freshman year, my learning community was-  it was like the beginning of like,  alternative literacies and like discourse communities.
And I remember like, being in class and  RD-SCHOOL-2-  RD-SCHOOL-2  main thing is like, okay ,  we got diversity  quote, unquote.
Cause I'm like in this class with  forty other kids.
And,  I'm the only one from the inner-city.
Pretty much the only one of any type of color.
There was another guy who was  Puerto Rican  -ish.
So it was like-  but he lived in mo-  he lived in the suburb.
So I'm like-  So we're reading all these like scholarly articles on these different alternative literacies, and  you get these kids who are just like, raising their hand.
And like their views are like, so like,  close minded.
And I'm just like, um,  no,  it's not really how it works.
And everybody's looking at me like,  what?
And like I'm  speaking from like my experience and they're just like,  no, no.
And I had a professor  who was like,  no like, yes that's really how it is.
Like  cause she like, dove into it.
She was actually going for her  doctorate  at the time  in  what she was teaching.
So,  she's like, yeah this is-  this is what the like  inner-city is like.
These are s- real life situations that  other people have to come from.
And  I just remember feeling like, I'm like, okay, now I'm just like that-  that outside-  that outside guy.
Like,  I'm a commuter.
I'm in a class with  privileged kids who never really faced any adversity.
Who never really s- s- had to deal with anyone  like me.
And they're probably f- trying to figure out, um, what is he doing here?
So, um,  yeah it was-  college was very interesting.
College was a very interesting experience   um,  I enjoyed it  for what it was,  but I'm glad that  I was a commuter.
Um,  like,  the education I got from RD-SCHOOL-2  was-  was top tier,  but again, um, had to take it into your own hands.
I remember  like by the time like eleventh grade, I'm like oh, um, I want a class about so and so and so and so.
They're like,  create it.
I'm like,  you're gonna be my advisor?
Yeah I'll be your advisor.
Okay, so I-  by the time eleventh grade, I was creating my own classes and  doing the work and basically making my own like, assignments and curriculum.
Like, do you think this is enough?
I remember I had- I had one, um,  she was actually my  actual English advisor.
She's like,  that's too much.
I'm like,  really?
You sure?
I- I- just- I feel like it's not enough.
She's like no no no,  no no.
Scale it down a bit, and then  it was- it was nice.
It was dope.
I got to- I got to learn, again, a lot about myself and a lot-  I would say like college  took me outside of myself and really learning about  other people.
Um, I'm a very introverted type of person.
And I would say,  up until  seventeen and I started slam poetry.
I was still very just-  I saw the world around me, but it was just like, I don't wanna participate in that.
So I'm'a just stay in my bubble.
Um, but  in finding my voice, I started realizing that like no, like,  I gotta start doing something about this.
And, um,  I would say college definitely  helped,  um, with,  the education  of how to do that,  um,  but also really  pushing me and encouraging me to do that,  and allowing me to do that.
I remember one time,  I did like a flash performance in the hallway  and,   um,  everybody just stopped.
Like,  it's like,  two hundred students just backing up the hallways.
So like people are coming out of class and everybody's just like crowding around.
And they're like-  Next thing I know, I get campus security.
Running.
Move, move, move, move, move, what are you doing?
Luckily I had my advisor, like right there with me.
She's like, no,  he's doing a performance, da da da da,  stop, you gotta wait until after he's done.
So,  they waited until after I was done.
And they're like, you can't do that, it's a fire hazard.
And I'm like, well, it was  nobody here when I started.
Like,   so, um, I ended up  getting like, a little like, e-mail from the Dean.
It was just,  kind of weird, because like,  on the same token, and we're like, I would get reprimanded.
Like they had, uh, RD-NAME-4  from RD-SCHOOL-7 come up.
And they're like-  I get another email.
We want you to have lunch with RD-NAME-4.
So I'm like- You know?
Yeah.
Um,  now mind you like,  Me and him we had-  It was three other students.
They kind of pretty much got pushed to the side.
Cause we were just sitting here and then we're like,  I-  I got all these theories.
I'm like,  what if  in, um-  I use like, again, like my environment I was like, um, so if we're talking about like alternative literacies like,  how do you feel about if you take  someone.
I'm like hey,  be honest with you man, from the hood.
So,  I'm like, you take a drug dealer,  alright?
Mm-mm,   he has skills.
Has- he has very reputable skills.
You take him out of the environment,  you put him in a place where he can learn to- and- and hone those skills, and brush up on those skills.
He's like,  you know what , I think you might be onto something, young man.
I'm like-  A-  it was awesome.
It was- it was one of- one of- one of the biggest- uh,  one of my favorite like college experiences.
But yeah, it was just like weird.
It's like,  so you reprimand me for expressing myself, but  this big wig come to town and you want me to talk to him?
So I don't really know how you guys feel about me.
I don't really know how to feel about that.
Um,  but basically,  in the end  of my college career,  they waited until  my-  the-  yeah, the spring semester of my senior year,  to basically be like,  yeah,  you don't have  the number of amount of credits to graduate.
But I'm like,  okay, pull up my degree evaluation let's- let's figure this out.
So they pull up my degree evaluation  and I pass.
Fulfilled every core requirement.
Everything for my major, which was English.
Everything for my minor, which was visual performing arts and I took another one, which was communications.
So I was like, so you want me to come back for a year and spend forty thousand dollars to take a bunch of intro level classes?
And they're like,  well, like,  you can t-  I'm like,  there is no more classes I can take.
If you see that like,  I made five different classes for me to take.
And they're just like,  oh, well- I'm like yeah, no, I'm not- I'm not doing this.
So,  um,  I guess,  technically I got-  I don't know.
Kicked out,  dropped out.
Um,  I think that was also another like   moment for me.
Like, okay, so what do I do now?
I'm like,  am I a failure?
I'm like,  I don't know if I'm a failure, I just don't w- wanna spend that like-  I could go back,  but it's like,  no.
C- also like at that time like, I felt like  my spirit calling for something else.
Like,  in college-  college take- took  a lot- a lot of time.
Also like, personal things that I went through in college, I ended up losing my best friend in college.
Um,  my junior year,  uh, spring semester I had to go get a pacemaker.
Literally came out of surgery, went  passed all my finals.
Like-  like, I'm like,  okay- nah, no you need to- you need to take some time, figure out what exactly you want to do in life.
And I'm like, I want to help  my community.
I wanna help  that place  ten miles away.
So, how do I do that?
And, um,  by this time, I was on rock bottom,  and our executive directer RD-NAME-3,  she was like,  n- this is the universe working I swear.
Like,   me and her was having a meeting, she just called me up one day.
She's like, come over, let's have a meeting.
I'm like, alright.
I'm thinking I'm in trouble.
She's like, so  what are you doing?
I'm like,  man I just got kicked out of college.
She was like, oh,  great, so  RD-WORK-4  they've been contacting me, and they want me to talk to you, and they really want you to join their program.
I'm like, what's RD-WORK-4?
And I found out that basically RD-WORK-4 would allow me to work in schools and really get to  work with the community how I want.
So I'm like,  no brainer, sign me up.
She's like, well, deadline's in two days.
So,    get to work.
So,    I went and found a computer and was just like, frantically typing, now RD-WORK-4 is like,  extensive.
Like, it's basically-  it's slightly less extensive than the Peace Corps.
Cause I found out the Peace Corps, you gotta do like video interviews and Skype and all that.
But, um, I went for my interview for RD-WORK-4,  left,  literally got called a half an hour later and they're like, we want you.
And I'm like,  cool.
And  that really started like,  me getting into the community.
Um,  from RD-WORK-4 and- and- and just really like again,  taking advantage of the system.
I think I'm like the only RD-WORK-4 in Rochester.
I went to nine different sites.
Like,  I had my own site that I was at,  from Monday through Friday.
And then like, on the weekends, I would do Upward Bound at U of R.
And then, um, I did some Upward Bound at MCC and then I hosted something at  Monroe.
And I'm just like going to all these different places cause I'm like,  it's community service at the end of the day.
Like,  I wanna go  everywhere.
I wanna offer my service everywhere touch- excuse me, touch as many people as possible.
And, um,  it allowed me a lot of different connections that,  I mean, I still have today that still allows me do certain things in the community.
I'm like, alright,  I want a event  over here.
Okay let's contact so and so.
Um,  yeah.
I mean, now-  um,  I mean, now I'm at RD-SCHOOL-2.
But, uh,  earlier this year I did a contract at RD-SCHOOL-4  from September to June.
Which I got from being in RD-WORK-4, um, doing music integration.
And  yeah.
I'm like it- it- it was- it was nice,  it was really nice.
But I was really looking for- My thing was, what I started realizing,  um, as in RD-WORK-4 is like,  you make progress with kids,  but then like, something may happen at home,  that you have no idea about.
And they come the next day and it's just like, yo what's going on?
Something coulda happened.
Um, at RD-SCHOOL-2 I'm allowed to- I have that connection with the home, the school, the student, the parent and it's like that full circle.
So I feel like right now, I'm finally at that place where I'm-  this is the job that I want.
Like, this is how I feel like I can  really  make some type of  impact or change amongst these  youth.
And then with it being a all male school and kids that  are like me,  I'm like, yo look,  I'm a living example.
Like-  like it's- it's not easy, but it can be done.
And   yeah it's like, school  job-ish  area.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
So I got a lot about Rochester, I got a lot about Rochester.
Um,  growing up as a kid, I would say,  from like,  I guess like,  three  to like nine,  Rochester was-  it was fun.
I remember like mid-town downtown used to be booming.
McCurdy's, you had Sibley's like, it was like the place to be.
Um,  I remember like all the festivals, all- all of that stuff.
And then,  I don't know exactly what happened, but then just  stuff started shutting down.
Um,  I don't know if it was a lack of me not paying attention,  or if this was already just,  uh, uh, a constant thing, but I do remember like being around like eleven and start,  realizing the violence and the crime rate started going up.
Um,  and I think that had a lot to do with a lot of things  shutting down.
And  I also remember  being like fourteen, fifteen and all of a sudden they're like-  it-  it felt like it was a war on the youth.
Like,  realistically, you're like, oh,  now you got a curfew.
I'm like,  my parents don't give me a curfew.
What do you mean?
Like  I'm like, what are you talking about?
And then like, they're like, okay, the curfew is non-constitutional so we can't pass it, but still.
Like,  we were kicked out of  everything.
Like, couldn't go to the mall if you were a certain age,  um, couldn't go to the movies, couldn't do this, couldn't do that.
And I'm just like,  so what am I supposed to do?
And like, I'm not a kid that cause trouble, but like,  you got nothing for me to do.
So, pretty much nothing but trouble to do.
Like, um,  I remember in that phase,  that was a phase where I was like, no, I don't wanna be here.
I gotta get out.
I wanna get out.
I wanna move.
Like,  that's the-  that's the  end goal.
Like,  get Rochester, Rochester don't got nothing for me.
And,  I had the opportunity,  probably around when I was like  seventeen-ish  to    help open a downtown youth art center.
Cause also with  like, the war on like  youth, like  arts was  getting shut down.
Art programs, art teachers were getting fired, or moved, or  all types of stuff.
And then, um,  it's like, okay.
Then I started realizing like okay so this is-  is this part of the recession?
Is this-  what is all of this coming from?
Um, but then I had the opportunity to join, um, it was like a downtown like initiative  where a lot of different like business owners downtown are like, okay, we're gonna try and like,  get something for the youth to do.
We're gonna try and  revitalize downtown a bit.
And, um, together we brainstormed, and opened,  uh, what was called the RD-WORK-2.
And the idea of the RD-WORK-2 was  it's a drop-in center.
So,  any kids that's outside and that don't got nothing to do, or  up at RD-ADDRESS-4 and the police are harassing, just come down to the center.
And, um,  we'll get you in some type of art.
Whatever you're interested in.
whether it be  music recording, poetry, dance, singing, visual arts, screen printing,  all that type of stuff.
Um,  and it ran- it ran for three years.
And  I think it was pretty successful.
Um,  a lot of people that  are doing a lot of different stuff in the community, I'd be like, oh yeah I know so and so from the RD-WORK-2.
And I know that person from the RD-WORK-2, like,  hey,  da da da da da da,  let's try and bring the RD-WORK-2 back.
Um,  and I think that-  like, that really started like,  kick-starting- it started something.
Like,  it was like okay, so you got this program,  and it's not that it was like-  I think we ended up serving  probably like a hundred and fifty kids,  which,  isn't a lot,  but it's,  a lot.
Like  when you hold monthly shows and you got these kids coming up and performing on stage.
And you got  parents coming in and you got the news coming in and- and showing what's actually happening.
And  I think that also started like,  something where like  the art started just,  getting more notice.
Now also like,  the arts in Rochester are always been a thing,  but  I realized that,  from  my age group,  and where like  a lot of people were doing it, there was like a gap.
So like, I mean, I'm-  I'm twenty-four.
So right now that like-  the people who are like, before me in like that- I would say like our age,  wa- would be like,  thirty, thirty-five-ish area.
And  it was just like a ga- like  nobody was doing nothing with that.
And then you have  the older people who  have a thriving thing, but you know they're like,  older.
So they kind of have their own little circle.
Um,  but with  the youth,  we started really just  I guess, making a loud noise to where we started getting mentors.
And then we also started getting older and taking more leadership positions.
So, um,  when I was eighteen, I started being a teaching artist.
So I was going around and teaching at rec centers and  RD-WORK-5, and  anywhere I could really  teach.
So at that point, I became- I started becoming like a- a- a youth leader.
Um,  and  encouraging and bringing up more and more and more artists.
And,  then,  again with rock bottom,  um,  really just,  doing a lot of different community shows.
And different things like that.
Now it seems like the arts are just like  on-  on fire like,  here in Rochester  it's like,  you go to a open mic,  and you see concert-  really concert level talent.
I've  been to open mics and other places, and I'm just like  this is not like home.
It's not that it's bad, it's just like  the quality is just completely different.
And  around that time is where I started like, really being like, yo Rochester  is really dope.
It's just- it's a diamond in the rough.
Like we have  so much talent, so much potential.
And it's just a matter of  figuring out how to-  how to harness that.
And  what  I started realizing was  the reason why it was hard to harness, is because a lot of people had the crab in the bucket mentality.
Yo,  I wanna be the one to make it out.
I don't wanna help you make it out.
I don't want to tell you that you good, or that you dope or  that I see potential in you.
Because  then that mean less opportunities for me.
So,  I'm like,  that's not- that's not the way.
So really just starting to really like,  bri- literally bring people together.
Connecting people together.
Um,  and  yeah.
Now it's ye- it's-  it is what it is right now.
Um, I don't know.
When you go like,  Monday nights, they got a open mic over here at Clarissa's.
Uh, Tuesday nights they got a open mic out in  Henrietta.
Uh, Wednesday nights, they got a open mic,  um, I think somewhere out in like, East Rochester.
Thursday nights they got a open mic  on  East Main, like.
It's always something to do, and then it's-  a lot of people are putting on a lot more events.
Bringing a lot more artists together.
Um,  ButaPub has been like  the hip-hop place, you can go there, you get a nice hip-hop show, no drama.
Um,  I mean, me personally, I've put on a few shows.
I guess,  I would say my favorite show would be, uh, the community experience that I put on last year  with our executive director.
Um,  where it was basically,  everybody comes in for free.
I invite a bunch of artists,  and literally people get on stage and just like, freestyle live collab.
So you'll have a person spitting, you'll have a person playing.
And you-  dancers just jump up and get in the mix.
And everybody's just sharing the space and  seeing what it is.
Um,  right now,   right now my goal is to have  like, a-  So we have like music festivals and everything here.
But I wanna have one dedicated just for,  like,  local artists.
I would probably make it like, a tri-city type of thing, Syracuse, Buffalo,  Rochester.
But really like,  pouring into  local  artists like,  they got all these people headlining,  and  not that,  you know, they famous so yeah.
You know they got talent, but like, realistically  I know people that's better than 'em that lives right here, like.
Danielle Ponder, oh my gosh.
Oh my g- like- like- .
like,  absolutely amazing like absolutely amazing.
And then you got- you got Danielle Ponder, you got, um, Jimmie Highsmith.
You got David Haygood, like, and these people are  top  tier like,  name me five people that's better than 'em, like.
And it's like I wanna- I wanna do something that really like,  plays into that.
Um, I don't really know how to do it.
I don't know what's the first step.
I don't know any of that, but, I mean,  I believe-  believe in it.
I believe it'll happen.
I have- I have- I have a love hate relationship in what I wanna do with life.
Um,  because,  I want to stay,  but I know  in order for me to  do and build what I want to,  I have to leave.
I don't have my eyes set on like  any particular place to move to.
I'm not like, oh,  I wanna go move to Atlanta, and I'm going to go to Atlanta, and I'm gonna make it.
I feel like,  I have to have literally like-  I think the path that I have to take is I literally just have  to-  to travel  to a bunch of different places.
And, um,  definitely,  buying a house in Rochester.
??
um, want to,  frequent Rochester, cause home- like,  I've been a lot of places, but there's no pla- like there's literally no place like here.
Like,  I've not found a place that is like  my town.
My home town.
And I love it.
I- I love it.
I have grown to love Rochester.
And I've grown to find the beauty in it.
And,  I guess the real reason why I really wanna just travel is to like,  to share that.
You say you're from New York and they're like,  oh you're from the city.
I'm like,  no,  like,  from upstate, like, yeah.
I don't-  it's-  it's-  I don't know.
It's- it's- somethi- it's something about us.
Like-  like you can hear somebody from the city and be like, okay yeah, they're from the city.
But like, you hear somebody from  Rochester and you're like,  where they from?
Like.
I mean, I ge- uh,  this is new for me.
This whole like, Rochesterian accent thing.
Um, everybody sound n-  normal to me pretty much.
But I guess like, the Rochester accent is like,  in the a's or something like Rochester  or something like that.
Cause I get people that, um,  come from- from like out of town, they'll be like, yo what's up with the accent?
I'm like,  what accent?
Like,  what accent?
Like  you hear- you can hear- in New York City you can hear a Bronx accent be like, okay.
You hear a Brooklyn accent be like,  okay, But like, I don't know.
Like, I think  to me, everybody in Rochester pretty much  be speaking English, or they're not from  Rochester.
So that's understandable that they have an accent, or like, English is not their first speaking language.
Cause, I mean we have,  a diverse culture, uh, a very diverse culture.
So like, I guess I never-  never really thought about it.
I'm still waiting for somebody to be like, okay,  this right here is a Rochester accent and I can hear it and be like-  cause I be like, do I have a Rochester accent?
And they're like,  nah nah, I'm like, well, I've been here my whole life, so it-  I would think I would have-  have some type of-  if there is an accent, I think I would have it.
And it's like ah,  ah.
But it's  I think  with Rochester  it's more so like,  because of what our city gets portrayed as.
I mean, the stereotype,  uh, is basically-  Everybody looks at the statistics, which  came out recently.
Rochester is poor.
Rochester is  basically a smaller Chiraq.
Um,  the people are dumb.
The kids don't  educate themselves.
They just drop out of school.
Everybody's having babies.
Or,  um,  STD's, or like,  Rochester gets a lot of- a- a lot of negativity.
And- In relation to that, it's kind of like   I mean like, you know it's out there.
You know it happens.
You can't ignore-  you can't ignore it.
Especially like I said, living on RD-ADDRESS-5.
Like,  there's been times where,  man done got popped literally by  the tire of my mom's car.
So like,  I'm like okay, I can't ignore this, but  I- it's really just- it doesn't-  it doesn't define me as a person.
Like the actions that happen in my city,  doesn't define me as a person,  doesn't define the person next to me as a person.
We still have our own dreams, we're still entitled to our own goals and  it's really just-  it-  it really drove me to-  to make  them- I'm like,  I'm- I'm gonna prove you wrong.
I- I- I- I'm  gonna definitely prove you wrong.
So if that means  consciously having to do  the complete opposite,  of what you're talking about,  just so I could be like ha ha,  you can't say that because  I'm not that,  then,  that's what I'm gonna do.
And it's really a- a- a conscious choice.
Like,  it's hard,  like, it's hard to be  positive.
It's hard to  stay on-  I guess you could say like, the straight and narrow.
Like,  especially, again like,    I have friends who,  didn't make the same choices I had.
So it's like, okay,  times get hard.
it's hard times again  times be getting hard.
And  it be like yo, alright,  I know,  if-  I know my resume could go and get me a new job,  but like realistically, the type of money I make,  I need to call up my boy right now and say  no,  no,  no.
Don't do it.
Don't do it.
Why?
Cause you feed into statistic that's what they expect of you.
That's what they waiting for you to do.
Like,  last year,  last year, I got locked up  for the first time  ever.
And  was nothing criminal.
Ended up being I had a- um,  I had a bunch of tickets on my license.
And  they locked me up for it.
And I'm like,  this is wild.
I'm like,  cause realistically, they didn't have to lock me up.
I'm like,  you really just looked for  any reason  to lock me- Man like,  you would swear I did something criminal.
Like, how tight the handcuffs were,  how rude they were talking to me.
Like,  cop cars are just not comfortable.
And  me being the person I am,  and like,  the resilient,  like-  I'm a r- I'm- I'm- I'm a rebel, like I'm- I'm a rebel.
And if I- if I definitely know I didn't do anything  wrong,  then  I'm gonna talk.
But then,  having to understand and humble myself, I'm like, okay,  again, I'm a black man  in Rochester.
These are cops,  I'm a black man in America.
This is,  how you need to conduct yourself, in order  to-  It becomes,  not about  being right or wrong.
It becomes,  I need to make sure I make out of this situation alive.
Um, and then,  that whole aspect like,  cops in Rochester.
Um,  I done ha- I've had a few  instances.
I remember, um,  playing basketball after school at RD-SCHOOL-4, me and my boys,  I'm like, fourteen years old.
We outside, hey, ha ha we playing.
Three cop cars pull up, boom, boom, boom,  get out the car.
We all just freeze.
They just come up to me, start questioning me.
Where were you yesterday at six o'clock?
I was at-  I was at home.
Like,  and they're like,  oh wait nah my bad.
You don't look like him, you're not him.
Apparently some guy shot a six year old  on RD-ADDRESS-5  the day before.
But I'm like,  I'm a kid.
I ended up- um, I ended up telling my mom.
And she went to the school, and the school got like a picture of the guy.
The guy had a beard.
The guy had-  he had braids.
And at this time I had long hair.
But like,  n- looked nothing like the guy.
Um, I remember being like, around driving age,  and, um, I had pulled up,  it's like,  ten thirty at night,  I'm on RD-ADDRESS-5,  pull up to my house.
All of a sudden,  cop  pulls up behind me and puts on his lights.
I'm like,  I know I didn't do anything.
Like,  so I get out my car,  cause  I'm home.
Get out the car,  ,  ,  ,  just guns  pulled.
I'm like-  And in this moment, I really don't know what to do.
I don't- like, I instantly just like,  freeze.
And  my mom, luckily was like in the kitchen and the kitchen is like right by the door, so she saw the flashing lights.
So she opens the door and all she screams is, RD-NAME-2 get back in the car, get back in the car.
So I'm just like,  but I'm-  I didn't do nothing.
I'm home.
Like, and they're just like,  get in the car, da da da.
So,  long story short, apparently they stopped me, because the light above my license plate,  was  quote unquote,  out.
And,  they didn't end up giving me a ticket.
They didn't end up doing anything.
And I ended up going in the house after just sitting in the car for like forty-five minutes.
But it's just like,  why?
And like for what?
So,  when I actually ended up getting locked up, I'm like okay, like, you gotta keep your wits about yourself because you know how  you will get.
And  this- at this point you understand.
This is about survival.
Like,  you need to make it out alive, otherwise your mom's gonna kill you again.
But like, no, but like, it like  yeah it's-  that aspect of it,  I don't think will ever really change.
Um,  because, again, like,  the stereotypes.
Like,  um,  however, on the plus side,  Rochester has done some cool things.
Last year we did a- uh,  a peaceful protest  July eighth.
And, um,  me and my boys was actually like,  part of the people who were like, organizing it, and like was keeping it together  and running it.
And,  I mean, that was about  the police brutality, and everybody was getting gunned down across America, really for no apparent reason.
And  the way it ended,  was very ironic.
Like,  being met with police with riot gear, and tear gas, and they ended up locking up seventy-four people.
And it's like,  nobody did anything to them.
Literally like,  being there, being a part of it,  knowing what the mission is,  knowing how we were managing,  everything.
It was completely peaceful.
Nobody's like,  the po- F the police.
Nobody's like,  oh, throwing anything.
Like,  and we had a bunch of- we had a bunch of allies who would like link themselves like, around us.
And then you had like- um,  it was like women and kids, you stay  in the inside.
And like, we had like the men  on the outside, on the borders.
Like,  okay, moving the masses this way.
But I remember like, walking through downtown,  and  it started off with like,  fifty of us.
Then we just started walking.
Then it turned to like a hundred.
Then it's just like,  I turned around, I'm just like,  all of these people.
All of these people.
Like literally,  to the point where like  disrupting traffic, disrupting  everything.
But then we had people getting out of their cars.
Like,  what are you guys marching for?
And they seeing the signs, and they're hearing the chants and they're like nah, I feel you.
And they  park they car and they come and join us.
And I'm like, yo like,  this is powerful.
And- and  I would probably say we ended up with like,  three hundred to four hundred people.
And still,  nobody,  nobody threw a punch,  nobody threw a slur, nobody threw a yell, no anything.
And, um,  I mean, Rochester actually, we made-  I think we're like number four,  on like Blavity  for like,  things that were going on that week.
And just like,  for me I say that's a positive thing.
I say that's a positive thing, because  it could have went completely left.
Um, completely left.
But it shows- Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It was just- it was- it was wild.
And it-  it went to like,  three in the morning.
Mm.
Yeah.
But yeah, I'm like it went- and it went pretty late.
Um,  but yeah, I mean,  I guess it's- I mean,  every city has a ugly side, but  it still doesn't deter me from  really wanting  my city to be prosperous and really understanding that like, again,  so much potential.
So much potential.
Right now,  I don't really know how to feel because a lot of gentrification been going on, lowkey.
They trying to like, make it kind of like a touristy type place.
But  I think  at the same time,  like, you know,  like downtown definitely needs- it needs it.
It n-  Cause  downtown has been barren for a bit.
So like,  you know, I understand.
But at the same it's like,  don't forget about  us actual people, that actually live in the city, so.
Yeah.