Oh, yeah.
Uh-huh.
And,  another thing is,  I'd always have a lunch.
Um.
she'd- she'd make me a lunch   c-  called spice ham.
And, uh,  when it was time to eat,  it was always full of sand   It was so full of sand, I couldn't eat it.
So,  I would- I would  manage somehow.
I don't know what I did, maybe she gave me some money too.
I don't know.
But,  a hot dog probably was a nickel back then.
I don't know.
But.
Yeah, but, that was, that was what I experienced in  discrimination.
And my own father,  because.
Oh, I'm going backwards now.
I got to tell you what happened.
He, um,  He had a heart attack.
He call me  on,  this in two thousand and uh  two thousand and    seven, I think.
Hadn't been that long ago.
He was ninety three years old.
He was still going to the U of R.
He was the head of the economics department at that time.
He would still go there once a week.
So, he had a heart attack.
He was in the hospital for a while.
When he came home  he call and ask me to come and see him.
So, I said, well,  okay, I'm getting ready to go to church now.
Can I come  this afternoon?
I said probably maybe one thirty,   two o'clock.
He said, Okay.
So,    I stopped at   Wegman's  and I bought the little fruit tarts cause he likes tea.
So, I said, well, we'll ha-  we'll have a little fruit tart with the tea.
So,  I was going up the walk.
He lived on Dorchester Road in um Beachwood over there off  Wenton  North Wenton.
So I was walking up the walk  and I said,  I'm tired of this man playing these games.
I said  I'm going to   tell him  all my life, I've been told he's my father  and I'm'a ask him what he  have to say about that.
So,  I got there, I rang the bell,  and he said, It's open.
I though that was odd cause it was cold.
So,  I went in  and he was sitting in a chair.
And he looked so bad.
Oh, he looked so.
He was  pale.
He was a big tall man.
And um.
I told him, I said, um,  How you doing?
Or something I said.
And he- he couldn't talk good.
So.
I said, I told him I brought him something.
And he said, well, I'll make us some tea.
He got up.
I said, I could do it.
He said, let me do it.
I wanna do it.
I said okay.
So, I thought I saw him trying to go in there and make the tea.
And I said, I'm not gonna say anything to him.
What would I accomplish?
He's so  sick, I cannot say something  that might upset him.
So, I didn't.
So, we  we ate the tart, we sipped the tea.
And he told me, um,  he ha-  um,    All his  papers,  and  all his  work.
He's very well known in Japan.
Because he educated so many Japanese students  in this country.
And,  they have a floor   on a, in a library.
I mean a museum.
And it's all of his  work.
And he got- he got all his  work there and blah, blah.
He told me where  uh, something else was.
But mostly everything was  in Japan.
Except what  was at the U of R.
And,  he said, um,    What did he say?
Oh.
He said,  he told RD-NAME-2,  his younger son,  he said, I told RD-NAME-2 about you and I gave him your information,  so he can contact you.
And I said Oh, okay.
So, he said RD-NAME-2  uh, doesn't come to the house.
He hasn't been to this house in years cause  it had a lot of bad memories for him  So I was getting kind of leery.
You know.
So,  he said, he lives  in the South Wedge.
He say,  RD-NAME-1 bought him a house, set up a trust fund.
No.
She bought him a house.
And she set up a trust fund.
That was his   sister.
Oh.
And I had-  Yeah.
I had been invited to the W-  the we-  the repass.
After RD-NAME-1 died.
Who was my brother, but RD-NAME-1 didn't know.
RD-NAME-1 died of  cancer.
And,  RD-NAME-1 died of cancer.
But, I wasn't invited to  RD-NAME-1's funeral.
She ha-   they had her funeral in Boston.
But, I was invited to his wife's funeral.
RD-NAME-1 was his wife.
But RD-NAME-1  died of caner.
Same cancer I had.
And RD-NAME-1 died of breast cancer.
Now, RD-NAME-2 is still living.
He's the youngest one  So, I asked,  um,   Oh, after  I left,  I told him to call me w-  if he needed something.
So,  he said he would.
And about two weeks later, I'm reading the paper.
He had died.
That quick.
Just like two weeks later.
I said, boy am I glad I didn't say anything  to him.
If he got upset, I didn't do it.
So,  after about a year,  I didn't hear from RD-NAME-2.
So, I looked up  uh, the information on him.
And I called him.
And we set up a time to meet.
And,  we met over at Jine's.
I asked him, did he have a favorite place?
And he said Jine's.
On uh, Park Avenue.
So, we met at-  we were going to meet at Jine's.
So, I got there first.
And I was talking to a man  that was waiting in line.
And RD-NAME-2 walked in,  and he gave that man that nastiest look.
It scared me.
I didn't really know it was RD-NAME-2  I thought,  this man and this  guy got something going.
You know?
I stepped out of the way.
But,  It was RD-NAME-2 and I didn't know it.
And he's my brother and I didn't know it.
And the way he looked.
I didn't tell him  That I might be his sister   So,  Um.
I said, are you  RD-NAME-2?
Cause nobody else came in.
And he said.
yeah.
Yeah.
Are you RD-NAME-1?
and I said, yeah.
So, he said, pleased to meet you.
And then we got a seat  They k- they took us to a table.
And,  I- so you like Jine's?
He said  oh, I've never been here.
And I said, oh, okay.
So, you know  I'm thinking.
Well, I done work with-  in mental health for thirty-five years.
So I know what to say and know- and what to do.
So, we-  we had  lunch.
And then, h-  Uh, he- he said, um,  where'd you get my phone number?
And I said, your dad.
He said, why?
I said, well,  he wanted us to be friends.
And he said,  oh, I don't know you.
I said, I know.
He said.
Bu-  But I know your dad.
So,  we agreed to meet.
Oh, and then I found out that  he's uh  patient  out pa-    And he- from Strong.
But, he gets all his treatments at  Strong Ties.
So, I thought to myself, oh man.
This is running in the family.
So,  we m- we agreed to meet another time.
He had.
He was gonna walk me to my car.
His car was in the same  parking lot.
And, so  we agreed  to meet again.
So, we met again in the same place.
So, he said, um.
You know Mrs.
RD-NAME-2?
And I said, yeah, I know her.
And, uh,  he said, well she wants to know,  how do you know my  dad?
And I said,  we're from the same  home town.
And she wants to know why he wants  you-  Why did he want you to contact me?
And I said,  cause he wanted us to be friends.
cause we're from-  cause I know your family.
And he-  your family knows my family.
So, we left it at that.
So, we's going to the  parking lot.
He said, uh  I got this new car.
I,  uh,  but I'm afraid to drive it.
I said, why?
He said,  uh,  cause it's got air conditioning.
And I know it's gonna  burn up a lot of gas.
I said, no, that's not  the way is is now.
They make cars better now.
They don't burn anymore gas than a  car with no air conditioning  He said, really?
I said, yeah.
Just enjoy your car.
So,  every now and then, he would call me.
But, when I s-  would see that  caller ID,  I wouldn't answer.
I said, I'm not getting in t- I'm staying away from this.
So,  one day, I got a letter from him and it said,  could you send me your  address and phone number?
I lost it.
So, I sent him  my phone number,  but I didn't send him my address.
And I didn't hear from him anymore.
So, one day,  I was bringing someone from the  health  place on South Clinton, which is Highland,  part of Highland hospital,  and the traffic  diverted me a different way.
So, I found myself on RD-ADDRESS-3 Street,  which is the street he lived on.
And I said, oh, I said  he lived at forty-one.
So when I got to forty-one,  some men was out,  they had these saw horses and they was cutting  plywood or whatever.
And, I said, um,  I said RD-NAME-5  live here?
And, they said, no.
I said, oh, okay, uh,  he used to live here didn't he?
He said,  we don't know, some-  they got somebody that bought the house and hired them to do the work.
So, I said, oh, okay.
Sorry to bother you.
No problem, they say.
So, when I got to work,  I looked it up.
And,  the house was burned up.
Inside,  every room was  burned up and water damage.
It was a mess.
I said,  thank God I didn't tell him where I live.
He could have gone,  got sick,  and come over here and burn my house or hurt me and my granddaughters.
Or something terrible.
You know?
Said,  I'm glad I didn't tell him.
So, I don't know where he is,  cause he's not in that house.
That's the only contact I had with him.
His cell phone number is  no- no longer.
And Mrs.
RD-NAME-2,  she's probably in a nursing home if she's still alive, cause she's a lot older than me.
She was around my dad's age.
And, I think, t-  they had something going, cause he was kind of like a lady's man.
And,  she- her husband was the director of the psych center.
So, that's probably how they met.
And, when her husband died,  Old RD-NAME-2 s-  stepped in.
Cause he told me she would come to his house every Thursday evening.
So, he didn't  go into details.
I- I know I told you a lot and I skipped all around everything, but.
I don't even know if I put that in here about- about my dad.
But he owned the town.
No, I didn't put it in here because RD-NAME-2 said  I might not-  you might not need to talk to me,  cause I didn't grow up here.
So,  I thought  well, maybe I'll just tell her how I got here.
So, Mm-hm.
Okay.
Uh.
Oh.
The biggest change  that I see,  is how the-  the neighborhoods have changed.
And how our people have  progressed.
I'll use that word.
We seem to be doing better  than when I was coming up.
And,  we have our own homes,  we have our own business.
Our children are  more successful.
Cause the opportunities seem to be there.
Like, when I was in high school, I wasn't prepared  for college.
I had to take  home economics.
I can set a table.
Or, I can have a tea.
I can t- I can- I can do a tea.
Those are the things I was taught  in high school.
And how to sew.
Took me a whole year to make a apron.
But, that's what they was teaching me  So now,  young people are better prepared  and- like yourself.
They're doing better.
They're going to college.
They're applying, they're getting accepted.
Some of 'em  get assistance.
Some pay their own.
S-  You know, it's-  And the neighborhoods look so much better.
So much better.
A lot of the old houses and buildings  have been torn down  and replaced with newer ones.
I see  apartments,  complexes,  all over.
Um.
Like, hanover houses.
There are other  projects like that.
Shopping malls,  strip malls.
You know, it's so many  changes  to make life  better  in Rochester.
That's what I see.
I don't know what  somebody else see.
That's what I see.
And it feels good  to see that.
I just  had a friend die Friday night.
And,  I would take him to  get his groceries  first of every month.
And,  I took him out to Citygate.
Oh.
because he remembered when it was Iola Sanitarium.
So, to see Citygate,  oh, that was  up his alley.
And,  I wouldn't take him up here like,  what he called, the Ghetto Tops.
I'd take him out  Henrietta Tops, or-  cause he never got out of the city.
He never-  he never went out of this neighborhood barely.
And he died Friday night.
And, two weeks ago, he turned sixty.
He- his legs,  his knees was bone on bone.
And,  they wouldn't  do surgery  because  he was too young.
But, when he   turned sixty,  he could-  they would evaluate him.
And,  he turned sixty two weeks ago.
But, he died Friday.
So,  I-  I feel terrible.
He was the best friend, I-  um,    My granddaughter.
I have three granddaughters  and each one of 'em-  One of 'em I raised from an infant.
The other two had lived in my house at some time.
And, each time,  cause he and his mother and his nephews lived across the street.
They would help me with the girls.
Like,  when school was  out, they would meet the bus and they would stay  at their house until  I got home from work.
Or,  um.
He took - he'd take- he's been taking my garbage cans  out  every week  for over thirty years.
And,  the lady down the street that came to tell me he died.
She say, he had just taken your garbage can  put it in the backyard  And, I said, yeah, I notice.
I say, well.
He do- she say I know, he does that every week.
But, he  had not just taken that.
He died later in the evening.
So,  another, you know, I just  I don't even know how we got on that.
I told you, my mind wander sometime.
I'm not that crazy though.
But, I still work   because,  I feel like  I need to work.
And I'm  e-  I have a good pension and I have social security.
But, I reduced  both of them by twenty percent.
I asked to reduce it.
Because,  they insist on paying me on my job.
And,  I guess technically, I have to.
I can't volunteer, so they pay me.
But, I was paying like,  twenty,  thirty thousand  I mean hundred dollars  every year for income tax.
So, now, this  past one, I only paid eleven hundred dollars.
And,  I've had to,  um,  take my deduction zero  plus  twenty-five dollars a pay check.
And now, it's like  zero  plus fifty dollars a pay check.
So, what I bring home is just a little extra money.
I don't live off it.
I couldn't live off it.
It's not enough.
But, it's a good living.
You know, it's a good living.
And I was working nine hours a week.
But they asked if I would like  more hours since the twins came to live with me.
Cause,  they say, well, if they get sick,  now, you won't get paid for it.
But,  or, if you wanna  take 'em on a trip,  you don't have vacation time.
Try working  twenty point five hours a week,  and we can give you benefits.
So, that's what I do.
Now, I get five hou- five weeks vacation.
But, I only work twenty point five hours  a week.
I have five weeks vacation.
And, I get sick time.
So,  it works out fine.
They would pay my  health insurance, but the state pays it.
So, I don't pay anything now.
So, uh.
I- I'm fortunate  that I'm able to work and I think it's  I'm healthy because- Well, I did have cancer.
I had stage three invasive  colon cancer.
And, I didn't know it  til two weeks  afterwards  when I went to have the staples removed.
And, after  they removed the staples, the nurse  handed me a  referral slip.
And, I said, what is this?
And she said,  oh, that's the Pluta Center.
I said, what is that?
And I read it.
I said, Pluta Cancer Center.
Why do I have to go there?
She said, you have cancer.
I said, nobody told me that.
The tears just rolled down my eyes.
And after a minute I got it together.
And, uh, I thanked her.
She said, when you get home, call them  and  make an appointment.
And, I did.
I called and made an appointment to  go out there, and I met the doctor.
And he gave me, um,  a name of a-  the surgeon.
The same surgeon that  did the- removed it.
He-  uh,   He  inserted this  Medport in my chest,  which is still there.
And it's been ten years.
But he said,  we can't take it out.
Cause I might not be out of the woods.
But, he said the farther out I go,  the less chance it'll come back.
And if it comes back, it's probably gonna come back in the same place.
It usually comes somewhere else.
So, I still go  to Pluta Center every six weeks.
Been ten years.
And I don't mind going.
I don't mind going.
But the thing is,  I went for a  colonoscopy.
Just a routine.
My doctor had  a skiing accident   and she hurt her back.
So, when it's time for my physical,  she wasn't able.
And they called and ask would I reschedule.
So, I did.
And  so, when it was time for that  appointment,  they called again.
And she's still not in.
Do you mind if another doctor in the office do your physical?
And I said, no, I don't mind.
So, I went,  and, um,  the doctor, she did the physical and then she said,  let's order some tests.
So, she was ordering these different tests.
And she said, colonoscopy.
I said, I'm not due for that for another two years.
She said, well, let's do it anyway.
I said, okay.
So, she did the colonos-  they-  she did the referral and I went to get the colonoscopy.
And, um,  the doctor told me, he said,  uh, we're gonna have to do  some surgery.
We found a mass  attached to your large intestine.
He said, but, I can't remove it.
He said if it was polyps, I can remove it.
He said, but it's really big.
He said,  it would tear the intestines so, I'm gonna refer you to a surgeon.
I said, okay.
I never had surgery in my life.
Didn't ever have medicine either and I was sixty-nine years old.
So,  I said, well,  I don't know any surgeons.
He said, well,  I had- my wife had a good surgeon,  and I'll give you his name.
He did.
And, I call and made the appointment.
They did a  biopsy,  and they did the l-  lab work.
And,  um, I went on and had the surgery.
And,  after,  um,  I found out  about the cancer,  the nurse practitioner told me  that  when they  removed the mass,  and opened it,  it was eighteen inches of cancer  growing inside that mass.
That's why it didn't show on the biopsy,  and that's why it didn't show in the lab work.
It was concealed in a mass.
So, I tell everybody that story because,  not all the time  it will show.
Cause,  and- and if I'd've waited another two years,  they said I'd've been dead.
So, they-  Doctor Chang was his name.
Vincent Chang.
He did the surgery.
He-  he cut  three feet  of my  large intestine  out of my stomach.
And, he redirected my bowels so I didn't have to wear the sack.
I'm forever grateful to him.
So, that's- that's my story.
I'm been through a lot.
Three years ago,  um,  my son was scraping paint  in the bathroom.
He was getting ready to paint  the bathroom and he's getting all the old paint.
And, uh,  I went to  Home Depot to, um,    make an exchange.
And, I thought, I'm this close to Marshall's.
I'm not going right back home.
So, I'm out there in Marshall's and, everywhere else I wanted to go.
And, when I got home, I had a note  from him and-  taped to the  bathroom  mirror.
He said, Ma, he said,  I made a mess, but I cleaned it up.
He said, I'll be back tomorrow.
He said, my new phone number and he put his new phone  number.
And,  so, I said, aw man, I just went up to get him a pie.
I said, good thing Gladys was closed.
He loves sweet potato pie.
He likes mine better.
So,    n- about nine o'clock that night,  RD-NAME-2 call,  the girl that was just here.
Sh- that was his fiancee.
And,  she was crying.
She said, boo-boo's not breathing.
I can't get him to breathe.
Nine-One-One on the way.
And, I said, what?
So,  I had jumped out the bed,  and, I went over there and the street was full.
I couldn't get in the street.
She lived on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street, off Genesee Street.
So, I found somebody driveway.
I just pulled in they driveway.
I didn't know who it was.
And, I walked down to the house,  and I heard somebody say,  that's his mother, that's his mother.
So, the policeman took me in the backyard.
And I said,  why are you bringing me here?
I wanna see him.
And, uh,  he said,  they're working on him now.
And, so, I said, oh okay.
So,  finally, the medical examiner got there,  and they told me,  that  he was dead.
He had a massive heart attack.
He was fifty-three years old.
And my husband had  his heart attack, he was forty-one.
And both of my sons were scared  when they got close to that age.
And,  when they passed that age, I guess they thought, oh I'm okay.
But,  that one got it.
And the younger one, he's fifty-four.
He's probably worried too.
But, I hope he  live a long time.
So, I've been through it.
And, my granddaughter,  she um,  she was born to my daughter when my daughter was  eighteen.
And my daughter walked away from her.
She was two weeks old.
So, I had to  figure out what to do.
So, both of my sons said,  let's keep her.
Let's take care of her.
I say, you guys in school.
How we gonna do that?
I gotta work.
They said, we'll figure something out.
So,  I found a babysitter  she lived on School Street.
off North Street, by Portland Avenue.
So, everyday, I had to drive over  to School Street from Jefferson Avenue,  drop her at the babysitter  and then drive out to Elmwood Avenue to work.
Then, the lady told me that she couldn't babysit anymore, cause she was gonna start,  uh,  keeping  children  for the county.
So, she couldn't have  private  kids and county kids.
I don't know if that was true or if she just didn't wanna do it anymore, but,  I said, okay.
So at work  they told me  um, Monroe Developmental Center  had a daycare.
So, I went over there, and they-  they took her.
So, she  did alright.
So, she's still-  she's not still with me.
But, her children are  still with me.
She- um,    she bought a house  on  RD-ADDRESS-2 Terrace.
But, I already had her   children.
Her daughter  lived with me all her life.
She's twenty now.
And, she had  twins.
And,  they're  eleven now.
So,  she started working.
She's a nurse but, she started working for a private group of doctors.
And she had to be to work like seven.
But the twins' bus didn't come til seven forty.
And they was in first grade.
She couldn't leave 'em standing at the door.
They didn't know how to lock the door.
She couldn't leave 'em on the porch.
She couldn't lock the door and leave 'em on the porch.
So.
I started going up there  and wait for the school bus.
And when they got on the school bus,  I come back home.
I get ready go to work.
So, I thought,  what if that school bus is late then I'm late for work?
I would panic.
I can't stand to be late.
I'm serious.
So,   I told her, I said, why don't  the twins come to my house,  go to school from my house and they just come home on the weekend?
Or, you come  down there on- spend the weekends or whatever.
So, that's what we agreed to do.
And that lasted about a week.
She stopped coming down here, they stopped going up there.
They call this home.
They call that they mommy house.
So, they still here They're going- they're in sixth grade now.
So,  it works out fine.
So, couple years ago,  she rented her house out  to  another family.
And it  turned out to be  really good cause sh-  the person she rented to was a school nurse.
And,  She's in the process of buying-  she's in a program where she can buy her own house.
So, she needs about another year.
And it's working out fine.
Yeah, it's working out fine.
The-  p- the family that's in there,  not the dude, but  the girl.
She's on section eight.
So,  that's  added income  for my granddaughter.
And, it gives her a really nice house to live in.
And,  my granddaughter benefits.
She gets the  rent check  and she pays her mortgage and the rest is free money for her.
Along with her-  She- she's a nurse at the RD-WORK-2 Health Center.
So, she's doing okay.
But her kids are still here.
And, they don't wanna go home So, she said, um,  when the  lease is up,  uh,  they'll- it'll be good for them  so they'll have their own room.
I said, okay, they moving back home?
She said, oh no.
Yeah.
She said, oh when they come to visit, they'll have their own room.
They don't wanna come back.
They don't wanna live with me.
Cause I asked one of them, I say, RD-NAME-3 if something happen I'm not here anymore, what would you do?
Where would you live?
He said, in your garage.
That hurt my heart.
You w-  you wouldn't want to live with your mother?
He said, no.
I said it's no bathroom in the garage.
He said I'd come in the house.
I said, what if some people live here and they don't want you in the m-  use they bathroom?
He said I'd go behind the garage.
I said, you can't shower behind the garage.
You know, so,  I said, we'll- we'll talk about this.
We need to talk about this a little bit more.
You know, so, they're okay.
They're okay.