But i- in- in terms of  when I got to Baltimore.
I signed up for a gym and w-  the- the woman signing me up  though I was British.
She goes, are you from England?
And I was like, no.
Um.
From upstate New York.
Oh what's your borough?
It's a whole other conversation, but} None of them.
But, you just said New York.
I said,  yup.
I did.
Um.
And then,  coming back to here.
When I worked in the city, I realized that those students didn't think I was black either.
So they were like, what are you mixed with?
Can I touch your hair?
You've got that good hair.
Which,  a- n-  was very frustrating.
And then I  m- had them all read them all read the Willie Lynch Letter.
And be like,  this is why you think this.
Like, let's stop  Um.
But it's- it's-  P- I know  my pronunciation and- and my handling of the English language comes from a different, couple of different places.
One, my great aunt, who raised my mother, was an eighth grade English teacher.
And, so she drove  pronunciation, language, speech,  spelling,  reading, into my mother, and my mother did the same with me.
Even to this day, if - if I'm mumbling, or   uh, if I'm speaking too loudly.
If my presentation isn't  what she deems appropriate,  p- she has no hesitation in correcting me.
Um.
I know that part of the influence on my language is, when I was a kid, I read a lot of comic books.
And,  comic books has an impact on language in that, one,  it says it's okay  to put image with-  with words  as you get older.
But, you have to pay attention to the inflection.
For example, it's very common to m-  make words bolded.
Well, if it's bolded,  that's their way of putting an exclamation point on the word.
So, you practice  pronunciation to- to catch on to, this is the word I have to pay attention to.
Which changes how you read  the line.
It's not just  flat script, but  like, oh, I have to change how I'm saying this because they're arguing.
And I have to internalize and what would this character sound like if he were having that argument?
It's a little bit different from a book because you have to  infer  that's what's going on based upon  the imagery the author has given you, and then you read it as you see it.
In a comic book, they don't  give you that much  freedom.
Also, you're forced to address  words may be a little more challenging in pronuncia- pronun- pronunciation.
You know, the fact that   at seven years old, I'm saying adamantium.
You know, vibranium.
These aren't real things, but,  there's a lot of syllables.
That's a lot to chew for a seven year old.
Um,  because,  you read about Marvel comic books.
And they have these  fake alloys.
And you have to know what an alloy is, and so, now you're reading and you have to  dissect and understand.
Um.
Even DC with Superman, his kryptonite.
Well, kryptonite's real, so now you're learning about a real e- element.
But it's not  a- a common pronunciation that works well for like phonics readers.
You know, there's a Y there, but I'm pronouncing it like an I, like what's going on?
Um.
Other influence, I think, upon my language are  I didn't like  reading regular books.
Especially I remember in fourth grade,  um,  I think one Christmas, I had to do like twenty book reports to catch up on all the book reports I didn't do.
And,  it was just one of those things where,  m-  when that was over, then my parents said, alright, you're gonna have to start doing book reports for us.
And so.
Turn it down.
Um,  so then I had to start doing  uh,  so, I started reading  a lot more stuff  that  for me to be entertained by it,  I had to read  out loud to myself.
So then, I'm thinking about how I sounded,  when I said it.
And that changed, um,  a bit of my language.
Um.
And then,  you know, by the time I got to high school and the SATs, I'm like really just  gobbling up language.
So, by the time,  nowadays, when I'm interacting with students,  wow.
You sound really smart, you're using words I'm not familiar with.
I'm like  well, I'm gonna keep using them until you are familiar with them.
And  you'll be used to them as well.
Um.
I think also, part of what influenced my language is I was  a lot of my friends were, would be classified as gifted and talented.
So,  I remember-  I remember arguing over the usage of the word conundrum i-  when I was in eleventh grade,  with my friends, and there were no adults around us.
Because somebody used it  like, they heard it, they used it in the middle of a phrase, and then we argued over the meaning of it.
Um.
That was a  common event.
Um.
And I think a lot of that shaped  how I addressed language.
Um.
I think what it  what you find in terms of the- the-  the development of language.
I think  couple different things  stand out.
Especially from an education standpoint.
Um.
I was not an oral learner.
And, when I say that, I mean  I didn't learn stories and-  and-  and  concepts and how to behave in school through  story telling.
I learned it from reading.
And that changed  my approach.
And what I have found is that  suburban districts, wealthier districts  the majority of the students are learning from reading.
They're not learning from story telling.
So,  which is very conducive towards a- uh,  a hu-  traditional educational s-  setting.
In urban districts,  you find more of a storytelling,  well, I'm not gonna read you Little Red Riding Hood.
But, I know the story.
So, I'm gonna tell it to you.
And, I'll embellish it, so next time it's a little more entertaining.
However I need it to be, but  you know the basic story.
Well that then says  to a student,  one, I don't need to have mastery of language.
That's the  mainstream mastery of it.
I just need to have a mastery of concept.
So, how I pronounce it doesn't matter.
What I'm saying does.
And so,  the package changes.
And I think a lot of people have  issue  with the packaging.
Take the-  the Southern accent.
The stereotypical Southern accent.
Um.
M- most people don't realize that you have the PhD triangle  in North Carolina.
But,  so which- which would say  per capita, you have a lot of intelligent people  in one nucleus.
But, a lot of them are gonna have that Southern accent.
But, you're going to assume stupidity with the Southern accent.
Like, that's-  that's a cultural norm, because you don't like the package.
Um.
And I- I think  a lot of the times, people just need to get over that.
We do the same thing  With, the e- English as secondary learners.
These are kids that should be in the fifth, sixth grade, but we put them in the fourth and third grade when they move here.
Why?
Because  they have to learn English.
Instead of just putting them in an English immersion program,  and then,  saying, you're one grade behind.
Um.
So, I think a lot of the times,  people just need to get over, in terms of language.
the packaging.
And- and-  and focus on the message.
Because,  if nothing else, listen to hip-hop.
And, I don't-  I don't mean that mumble crap.
That tr-  th- it has it's purpose, whatever.
But,  If you look at say,  what Eminem does.
Nas, Mos Def, Common,  even Kanye, in the way that they structure an argument  lyrically.
These are guys that are from traditional urban backgrounds.
And if you knew nothing about them,  all, the negative perceptions that would l-  fall on them because of where they're from.
And then, they open their mouths, and they  unleash genius.
Well, why is that  possible?
Well, because you take the time to actually listen to what they're saying,  and how they use language.
They're w- literally  word smiths.
Um.
I think,  people need to, again, get over the package.
and really get to the heart of  what's really being said.
And,  it would open their eyes a lot more to  what things mean.
And, create more fruitful conversations and interactions.
And that's  final thought.
No problem.
Sure.