Okay, okay.
Okay, okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Oh, okay.
I was like, oh.
I grew up in, um,  well,  it's northeast Rochester  and the area actually has been, um,  knocked down  and,  um, school has been put there.
So right where, um,  like RD-ADDRESS-2,  RD-ADDRESS-3, that area.
So yeah, we- RD-SCHOOL-2, uh, what is it, RD-SCHOOL-4?
When I was eighteen, they tore all the houses down in that neighborhood and put RD-SCHOOL-4 there.
Right.
Right.
Razed the whole neighborhood.
It was uh, a inner city working class neighborhood.
All the neighbors on my street owned houses.
The- the n- the woman who owned the corner store was our next door neighbor.
My grandmother had lived there for  decades.
It was her first home in the city after moving  from, um, RD-ADDRESS-3 Houses.
And so, we had a very very close-knit neighborhood.
There was like a  RD-ADDRESS-1 Street area where  I still have those same friends today.
And it was one of those old school neighborhoods people talk about where  d- every person on the street had the right to discipline you, and I wasn't  a bad child, so  they never had to discipline me.
What, like everybody, we all, you know, fictive kinship, so we're all cousins.
And, um, it just- I've really a lot of fond memories about,  you know, we had crime of course, and we had, you know, drug usage  and, um-  but everyone in the neighborhood really stuck together, and it was a- a code  that  people  you know, in this particular area, so there was not like, oh it's somebody robbing a house in the neighborhood that they lived in,  you know an outsider would maybe have come in, or maybe a relative who was on drugs  may have taken something.
But it was really, uh, a place where people  know, worked at Rochester Products and Kodak and they owned,  um, houses in- in this- in that area but they owned other houses in the city, and, um,  yeah, so it was a really, really good neighborhood.
Well, I didn't go to the neighborhood schools.
I went to- my grandmother raised me, and she, uh,  worked at RD-WORK-3 School and the RD-WORK-1 hel- High School for a while.
So she put me in, uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 day care.
And, um, so I went to, uh, RD-SCHOOL-3 School  cause that was one of the three schools that they,  uh, transport to, RD-SCHOOL-3, Forty-Six, and Twenty-Eight.
And then I went to, when I got to fourth grade,  they put me in the RD-SCHOOL-5 program, so then I went to RD-SCHOOL-2 School  and- for elementary.
So RD-SCHOOL-3 and RD-SCHOOL-2.
And then for seven through twelfth I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Okay.
Well, you know, the class of- of- of- of nineteen ninety was probably the best last graduat- no  g- graduating class a- you know, from RD-SCHOOL-2.
But it was really,  like I s- we all-  many of us went to that high school from seventh to twelfth grade, and I believe when we got to ninth grade,  there was, um,  sort of,  uh, a  reorganization of the city prop-  uh, the city schools, and RD-SCHOOL-2 was threatened to be closed down  as a high school.
But they ended up making- I think Charlotte became  the middle school, and then we stayed the high school.
So I had the same classmates pretty much from seven through twelfth grade, and  again, just really, um, I'm still in contact with  you- several people  from that time.
And just  I have very fond memories about my high school experience.
Very, um,  just, it was a s- very special time in my life, and I was a-  able to  interact with a lot of de- different people.
I was a student aid, and I was always a r- a really good writer, so I did activities around writing.
But I had a s-  some trauma at my home, um,  and so  once I got to school,  I would- I still wanted to get back home,  and I liked being home with my grandmother.
And, as appealing as after school and extracurricular activities were, I wanted to be around my grandma, and come back home.
So I've always been a home body.
But, being involved in just  certain special projects during the time of school,  but never did sports, never really was interested in that.
But always interested- like, I've always been a book worm  and so- and I've always been  really, you know, centered around my house.
I wanted to go home and be home with my grandma.
Yes.
My grandmother migrated here from, uh, Florida and Georgia.
We always go back if I'm like, Grandma what day, which one you came from really?
And so, she went to- um, she was born in Georgia, spent some time in Florida,  probably go- went back to Georgia, then went to New Jersey with her husband  when she was in her late teens.
And then she came up here  and, um,  so  I- my mother was her fifth child- is her fifth child,  and she had custody of me  and several of my cousins and stuff.
So she was always just like-  is  still the center  of our- our family structure.
But just this-  this  absolutely wonderful woman who had these  strong Southern sensibilities that she passed.
I definitely always say that  I'm a- a- an upstate Southerner.
You know, strong Southern roots.
Yup.
Yup.
Yup.
When we were younger.
My grandmother's siblings have all passed on.
She's eighty-nine.
She just turned eighty-nine in, um,  in July.
And so when we were younger we went down south a couple of times.
And, uh,  I'm assuming my grandmother probably left something behind there that she wasn't anxious to go back  and find.
And- but she instill- like we have dirt under our fingernails.
And we have,  you know, I've always known how to cook really well, and you know we got up the same as everybody else on Saturdays and did our chores, and  those are really Southern practices, and being able to  take care of, uh, different members of the family, and  just have that intergenerational  legacy of,  you know, care taking and- and- and family rituals  and really just strong, strong  beliefs that her parents and her granparents instilled in her.
So yeah.
Right.
Um, Southern weather does not appeal to me in that way.
If I move anywhere, I wanna go to Toronto.
Um, but I do wanna a- we have a lot of family now.
My husband's family's from South Carolina, and they got strong  for real Southe- like his mother  and his father are like first generation.
They moved here in their late twenties  but, um,  you know, definitely could see myself visiting, probably wouldn't wanna go any, uh,  any farther than Virginia  c- weather.
I'm not interested in sliding of the side of a- of the land or anything.
Um, but really I'm interested in South Cariol-  Sou- South Carolinian culture,  um, because of my husband's family strong, uh, background.
So for my children,  we've never been to South Carolina.
Um,  but I'm really interested in Geechee and Gullah culture, and I- something I  focus on in my classrooms and,  um, and my children's, uh, experiences as they've growing up, and I just-  I really could see myself visiting South Carolina on a more regular basis.
Oh.
I tease him  that he should have, uh, when I first met him,  I thought his family was West Indian cause, you know, I wasn't sophisticated enough to be able to tell dialects at that time, and  I only knew Florida and Georgia,  and that's a very different sounding, um, tone.
So when I first heard his mother, and his- her- his uncle speak,  and she would say things, and I was like, is his mother West Indian?
And then I found out they're from South Carolina,  and then just like Daughters of the Dust and,  um, Mama Day, and reading about the, ugh-  those Sea Coast Islands and just really being caught up  in the beauty of the language.
So I tease him that he probably shoulda been educated as an ESL student  because in many ways his- his parents have this heavy-  hi- his mother and his siblings- I mean her siblings have this heavy speech pattern  that I hear him say tha- I'm like, yeah you know.
I said, really.
And it's not like they don't speak proper English.
The- there's no such thing as proper English, you know, in my estimation.
But I just love the musicality in their voi- I think it's just the-  one of the prettiest things that  we could ever experience and get the closest that we could  to our enslaved ancestors and just our African roots and,  you know, going beyond just American soil, so I'm very, ugh-  I'm in love with South Carolinian culture.
L- in love.
I know more about his family structure than he does.
I was like look at .
I told his mother, I said, oh Miss RD-NAME-2, you know,  you're, uh-  you're a- you're Gullah.
She like, is that what I is?
I said- so I'm like,  yeah that's what you is.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
So I,  um,  because I- I- I don't like to say I graduated early,  but I was put up a grade, so I graduated younger than my class age.
And, um,  like I said, I had- my mother  was  always, um,  on drugs or incarcerated, and so I had a lot of things that were  barriers.
And because I was not a-  I didn't make a lot of noise,  sometimes you get pushed in the corner.
And so although I did well academically, I had a-  an- a guidance counselor who wasn't really,  um, engaged.
And at that time I didn't know  people.
I didn't have friends whose families had gone on to college and,  you know, people like, oh you're really smart and all.
But there was nothing-  you know, my grandmother had always told me, you know, own property and own- so those things- educa- not that she didn't push education, but it wasn't necessarily at the forefront.
So I went to, uh- I actually was supposed to go to a school in Syracuse,  and my grandma was so afraid I was gonna get kidnapped.
And I was like, oh okay.
I was all, you know like, okay whatever.
And I ended up going to cosmetology school.
I was too young for the program, and they tried to kick me out,  and I was like, no.
You said I had to be a high school graduate.
I'm sorry I'm seventeen, but I'm staying.
I'll be eighteen before the program finishes.
So I went there,  um, then, uh, so I graduated from there at eighteen.
Worked in that field for like a year.
Then at nineteen, I got pregnant.
I had my first son, and then I went back to school.
I started going to RD-SCHOOL-3,  and, um,  d- and kept going to school, and kept working, and kept doing things, and  yeah.
Well,  even though I was always a really good hair stylist, I always was more, um,  I was involved in more conversations than anything.
I would be leaning on the clients, cracking jokes.
I'm always so funny.
And I wasn't really-  it was just something so I wouldn't be laying around the house.
You know, I wasn't invested I guess.
Um,  so when I had my son, he was a preemie.
So I was pregnant.
My twentieth week, my water bag broke.
Um, then I ended up having him eight weeks later.
I was on bed rest, and I remember being in the bed for that time, and  I had my- I was a- had a lot of friends and  when I got on bed rest, it seemed like those relationship- and we're young, so I mean I'm not angry with them, but I understood.
Um, and so I was on social services probably for like a year and a half and, um,  I didn't even have all the benefits.
I was getting-  I didn't get rent or anything cause I still lived at home.
So I got health insurance and I had food stamps.
And I always make that so- I never had saw food stamp.
I would always tell my grandma to go grocery shopping.
But I remember and, um, being home with my firstborn son, he had a lot of medical appointments.
And it was-  I was taking him to an appointment one day.
We were going to the doctor's all the time.
So I had stopped working,  and, um, that's why I went to apply for benefits.
And there was a sign on, um-  on a bus.
I was driving, but there was a sign on a bus.
And it said,  do you want to change your life?
And it talked about this RD-SCHOOL-1 program.
It was some acronym for  like  supportive living or supportive services at D- um, at  RD-SCHOOL-3.
And so that next morning, I called.
And I was like, well you know,  I wanna, you know, find out about this program, and this is-  you know, I qui- I qualify, and  that changed my life.
So I l- I look at this little person that I was responsible for.
I knew-  I d- I didn't grow up on social services.
My grandmother always worked.
And, um,  even though I had, you know, my family, uh, you know, had relatives who were on DSS, and-  but it never was anything that- like she had owned restaurants.
She had n- it was nothing that was instilled in me, and had I not needed health insurance for this child,  I- it would never have been something I considered, but  I just wanted a different life.
I wanted to-  you know, I always knew I was smart.
I always knew- like I never had stopped learning.
That never- school wasn't equivalent to learning for me, like I'm gonna learn regardless.
But, um,  yeah, so seeing that sign, and then I saw it again in the newspaper  like the next morning, but I-  I called and it just-  yeah it  changed my life.
Changed my life.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, did extremely well there, and, um, I met my husband, and we had a baby.
And I was working  in, um, the field I was- uh, had a human services degree from RD-SCHOOL-3.
And so I did that for like seven years, but I was take like a- a c- I would take an English class, and a-  a social work class.
And I always made the joke when I was a child that I would make- I would be  an English teacher or a social worker, and I woulda made twenty thousand a year.
But when I became a social worker, like,  that was still the b- I was like, what?
You know, like this is, you know, like I should not qualify for services.
And so I ended up going  back to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-2,  did extremely well there.
And when I got ready to go to grad school, I remember one of the professors who,  um, just fell in love with me.
By this time I had uh my third child.
I was married.
And she was like, you don't need to go here.
You've already done this.
You need to go to another school.
So I apply for RD-SCHOOL-3.
I was still working on my  bachelor's degree,  and I applied for their Ph.D.
program.
And they said, you know, you-  you are a w- b- beautiful candidate, but we only accept seven people,  and we need to make sure that you gonna finish your degree.
But like,  if you were done with your bachelor's degree,  you would absolutely get in.
But they said, you know, um, I took my GRE's  like  within two weeks.
I didn't study  and I remember getting like an average, and I cried, but I got a hundred percent on the English.
And I remember crying.
I was driving home, told my husband, like, oh I got an average.
He's like, you got a average, you didn't study?
I was like, but I did get a hundred.
Cause it's something about language policy.
I'm like, oh I can do this all day.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
They gave me a partial scholarship for my master's degree.
So I went from RD-SCHOOL-3.
I tell people I went from a community college  to, um,  a k- a state college, and then I went to a private university.
And then when I finished, um,  RD-SCHOOL-3 and my master's program, I had considered,  uh, applying for- they had doctoral program in visual studies.
I met this woman at a Christmas party,  and she said, do you know about  RD-SCHOOL-3?
They had this RD-SCHOOL-2 internship program.
And then I applied,  and I did that for a year, and then I got a full time job,  and a tenure track job.
And I was like, oh,  well,  you know.
And so  the next stage of school is coming, you know yeah.
Um,  I was a d-  d- I didn't have the traditional RD-SCHOOL-3 experience, but no.
I- I didn't-  I was there for a year.
I was a mom.
I was the oldest student in the class, even though I was probably like twenty-nine.
No, ma- maybe I was  thirty-one.
Maybe I was thirty-one.
And I remember being, um- so in the- the-  the Ph.D.
and the master's program, they combined all our cla- well  everybody took classes together.
I was in classes with people  who were freshman.
So freshman all up to Ph.D.
students.
And, um, I didn't feel  supported as a black student.
I remember being, you know- I know that's the-  always the story that folks tell.
And I knew that they had more investment in their doctoral students cause it was a fully- fully funded  program.
And the master's program was a one year- it was  fifteen credits a semester.
And, um,  but I remember just feeling,  you know, and I took all the black studies, and all the race, and all the post-colonial things, and  a- poetry is also.
I have a crea- my  bachelor's degree is in creative writing.
And I remember my, uh, creative writing-  this  poetry professor- he's this award-winning professor.
And his wife is this award-winning novelist.
And I had them both.
And him-  he had missed a day during the regular semester, so he wanted to use like exam week to make up one.
I don't wanna make this up, I did all my time, whatever.
And we had to write this particular type of  like really  creative-style, really skilled poem.
And I had done this thing,  and he emailed me.
And he was like, you know, I could cry.
I wanted to hug you and just tell you  that this was one of the best pieces I've ever seen in my life,  but that was it.
No  well let me take you up under my wing.
And his wi- I had the same experience in his wife's class.
So in all of my classes, I got A's in all my classes.
And my professors were always commenting on my writing style and my articulation in terms of  my ideas and the way I laid out my arguments.
But not one of them said-  except for one crazy lady who was mad because I wouldn't be her friend, I had to report her.
It was a whole,  you know, whatever.
But, none of them said, you know what, let me  push you to the next level.
Let me connect you.
And so I felt very, um,  very isolated, very  just black in this,  you know blank white space.
And, um,  you know, so I understood, I was there to just get this degree,  and  people love the RD-SCHOOL-3 name.
I knew that I was gonna stay here, so I needed something.
I-  I made the joke that a lot of my colleagues, they had  degrees from every and anywhere, but if you go to MCC, you see the majority of black folks  have at least one degree from RIT or RD-SCHOOL-3.
You know, so  I knew where I was gonna be at.
So I knew RD-SCHOOL-3 would mean something,  you know, on the scope of the universe but  I'm not in love with RD-SCHOOL-3.
Yeah.
That was- I've always had really good mentors, but not for writing, um, so  my writing life, even though i- I've always  been a writer,  um,  I was a mother first, and mothering my children has always been the s- most single  greatest  thing that I thought I could do.
So I stayed at home.
I was a stay at home wife.
Um, and  I had like a little summer camp every year for them, camp RD-NAME-1, just my three kids.
And the youngest two are sixteen and eighteen, and they still like, mom can- I be like  I don't get y'all dusty butts up in-  camp RD-NAME-1 is over.
They're like, so it's not.
So you heard me telling RD-NAME-2 about going to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um,  so for me, I was involved in the things that they were involved in.
So like they were in s-  sports or,  um, their preschool parent and I was, uh  the PTA president for seven years for th- all the three kids.
They went to the same school.
My husband does school based planning, so  my mi- I didn't have enough space  to  write, but  if somebody would've  pointed that out to me,  I probably would have.
I would've  made more space cause I've always written with my children.
We've always done a particular Christmas card that had a story attached to it.
And, um,  but now  that,  um,  I'm older, I'm forty-three now, and I'm- I'm teaching writing and,  um, I now am- I've created a writing group and- with black women   you know, and, um,  a-  people hate to say no, I- cause I get embarrassed by the knowing sometimes.
But now making sure that I mentor other people, so I wanna give people  something that I didn't get.
So if I have students who come through  and they're brilliant, I'm like, listen, you oughta blah blah blah.
My Black Student Union leadership team, I always make sure they have experiences that,  you know, they would necessarily get a chance to- anybody I know that can get them somewhere, I'm like, oh hold on.
I gotchu, come on.
You need to know this person.
You know, and, um, I have conversations with them about  the ways that they navigate this world because I know it woulda made a- a g-  greater difference.
But if you have a particular skill set,  people think you alright.
If you not a whiner or complainer, if you not broke down enough, if you not, you know, if you don't look needy enough, you got all your teeth, you got your eyes okay.
You know, they're like, oh  to you, she fine.
You know, but really being conscious of being a mentor where I didn't have those  mentors.
You know, but I've had munte- mentors, like I've had two consistent mentors.
You know, and now that I do teach, I have a really good, uh, writing, uh, mentor.
Um, but that's-  I'm forty-three.
You know,  it's been a while.
Mm-hm.
Um, I like- so I teach at a community college so we are  teaching heavy, five five load.
Right.
Don't cry.
Don't cry.
I know.
So, um,  I like teaching-  and this is gonna sound so cliche, I love teaching every single class.
I think that any student  who comes into the college should always takes my college composition course  because it's a whole life course.
I, uh, I use them as the model for a book.
We take-  uh, I send 'em on a scavenger hunt, well,  they figure it out,  throughout the college.
I'm introducing the services, we got through scholarship stuff,  and I incorporate the writing voice in everything that they do.
Like I want you to be observant  in every area of your life.
My, uh, introduction to literature course, it's the first time they get like the little sampler platter  of different things.
And so I cover liter- um,  poetry,  uh, non-fiction and fiction, and drama.
And we do f- a-  a little bit of film or maybe a play.
But really just immersing them into stories, and so I like that class.
I love women's,  uh, lit  because, you know,  uh, I am woman, hear me roar.
I love love love my black lit courses, and  I don't like the name minorities in lit  but, you know, it is what it is.
We're working to change that.
But my black lit course has a, um-  a particular significance to me.
Uh, this past semester- I teach it only in the-  in the, um,  spring semester,  but I started the semester out with thirty-two students.
I ended up with twenty-nine, which is  beyond fantastic.
But I was looking at my students one day, and I had Facebook lived from- we were doing this party, and it was the most ridiculous thing, but I'm trying to incorporate different  medias, and I want them to see  that they matter to the world.
And people are always interesting in what I do in my class, so I  Facebook lived, and I was going around asking my students, you know, different things about the course and blackness and  black, white students, whatever.
When I looked at them,  this was like the end of April,  I said, you know, we have something here  cause we talk,  and I don't teach just,  um, the canonical texts.
I don't just do like,  you know, Their Eyes Were Watching God or The Color Purple.
Like we are reading, um,  documents from, you know, enslavement.
We are looking at the Voting Rights Act.
We are, you know, watching film.
We're watching-  you kno- know, we're listening to music.
And so I try to approach in a- this multilayered approach.
And so I contacted one of my colleagues in the, um,  he does like the films for RD-SCHOOL-3.
And he came and he made a- a little short documentary, so I'm waiting to see.
It's g- it's p- should be about  maybe seven minutes long.
He filmed, um,  like a hour and a half  wha- hour and twenty minutes of class,  and we aks group of students a series of questions  about, you know, colleges and how they talk about race and,  you know,  like, let's talk.
And let's not- let's not sugarcoat this thing.
So black lit has  a particular,  um,  special place.
I love creative writing.
I teach that  in the fall, um,  because I'm creative writing.
And so I cover-  some people teach  mostly, uh, composition,  well we all have to teach three comp and two lit  and-  but I teach comp, lit, and creative writing.
So I'm one of the few people who does that, cause we have a creative writing degree now at RD-SCHOOL-3.
Right.
Alright.
Um,  the challenges- it's twofold.
As an educator, the challenge is that the preparedness, or the lack of preparedness of the students,  um,  or  not even necessarily lack of preparedness.
Letting them understand that they have skills that fit in particular categories.
Cause someone may know how to do something, but they don't know that that thing  is this thing.
Like oh, I didn't know I was doing that.
And so just trying to let them see where the skill sets- and then that true lack of- what I would say the American education system  problem of, um,  sentence writing and structure.
But then as a black woman educator, I, uh, actually published a chapter about this  in my girlfriend's texts,  um, her anthology,  and it was- the title of it was, I'm Not Your Mama, Do Your Work: The Plight of the Black Female Academic,  you know, in higher ed.
And- and just looking at  someone looking at me as a pseudo mom,  um, my- my colleagues code switching when i-  hey girl.
What?
Um, assuming that I only can teach black related stuff.
Like I do Shakespeare better than any of y'all, you know.
And, um, the-  the lack of visibility.
And, um, in our- in our job there are- there were  three hundred- I think our cap is three eighteen full-time and tenure track professors.
And there are at this present moment- I think we counted eighteen black folks.
And like four or five on they way out.
And so there's like nine at Brighton, nine at Daemen, the downtown campus.
And so that- that lack of- of- of visibility, and I- I-  I'm very, uh, vocal,  and I'm very- very present  in- in black related stuff, and so  for me, the challenge is that intersection of my blackness and my womanness.
And  as a woman I don't feel, um-  I feel like I'm a black woman.
That's a particular thing.
So that impacts the way that,  you know, I- my students-  I remember walking into a course one time and, you know,  uh, my student's like, you the teacher?
I was like  yeah.
So she was so older black woman.
She's like,  you've been speaking to me all time,  and I didn't- and then she said, can I call my friend?
And I was like, yeah.
Cause class hadn't started.
She called her friend.
She said, can you tell her?
I was like, hi, I'm her.
And you know they started laughing, and I'm- and then- just seeing  like my mother's friends and my uncle's friends who are like  fifty something, sixty years old,  and they know my-  my mother struggles and my uncle struggles, and they like-  and I'm like, oh there go my uncle such and such.
And I've never really met these people, but they feel  like they can do it because I offer myself bare to them.
I'm like, you know, this is the- the journey I've taken.
So the challenge is- is that  people have different expectations  for me, and sometimes I have those  for myself and knowing how to l- you know, lay boundaries out but also  being able to be heard and be visible and not be invisibilized,  um,  yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-mm.
No, no.
No, no.
I'm inspired by everything and- and nothing.
I think that, um,  I'm most inspired by black stories and  I have been, um-  I was telling someone, I think that in the past  that like ninety-nine point nine percent of the stuff that I read- even- all my classes got black stuff in it, so whatever.
Um,  by black people and their stories and I- I just l- I love everything about us.
So if I look at my black children, my black husband,  if I look at my black friends, if I see someone, like I l- everything, like black black black, all black, everything.
You know, um, I'm inspired by blinking.
I'm inspired by  when I teach my creative writing song, I tell my students to listen to the pauses, listen to the spaces.
And being able to create something  not from nothing but from little.
And, um,  so in my own writing I talk a lot about love and, um, love of us as people, love of my husband and our children,  love of my grandmother, love of myself, and broken love, and promises, and,  um,  also, you know, uh,  that revolutionary spirit like, yo, you know, black folks be stay woke.
And so I'm very inspired by i- once again it g- always cycles back to blackness, but I'm- I want people to know I'm a educator all the time.
And so I'm- I- I wanna sh- show you something and teach you something in- in the things that I write.
So I'm-  I'm inspired by everything.
If I-  i-  if someone has a- a really good meal or has a pretty color that pops out,  if I'm feeling kind of down, I'm l- up,  whatever like, up, down, inside out,  twisted,  crazy, straight lines.
I love it all.
So I think Rochester's pretty dope.
I think that, uh, we have so much,  you know, pure magic.
The one critique that I do have is that I think that people operate in silos in many ways.
And that, you know, um, and so for me- this is how I see it,  and it's how  I told my- my black  m- women's writing group  that  we all have these dynamic experiences  a-  but I teach writing.
I'm a- one of very few  black female profe- black  english professors in this area.
There's no reason why I don't know everybody's stuff.
Like y'all not on my email list because  I got students.
My students wanna come see you.
At the v- I- I have a built in audience, and I want my students to know  I shouldn't have to- every year before I teach black lit, I go  and I'm looking through calendars and websites trying to find stuff.
And I said, there's no reason  why y'all not plugged in.
So I made the commitment to take my students to- or have them go to,  you know, spoken word pieces that I know,  when Rena does her stuff, when Lou does her stuff.
I want them to know when, um,  you know, the Sankofa Theater is happening.
I'll pass that information on to my students.
But I think that, um,  there are a lot of people  who  just write in vacuums, and-  and sometimes,  um,  because people don't have-  there's a lot of academic bashing  that,  oh,  you have to be like a guerrilla writer.
It's like, it's okay   to have some degrees.
It's okay.
You know, and, um  coming through with- so for me I've been a writer before I was an educator,  but now I am a educator and I teach writing.
So when I go to some of this stuff I'm like, oh,  I hear you cause it's, you know  finesse this thing, and it could be a little bit-  little bit on a higher level.
But people aren't always  interested in that because they wanna do it how they do it and,  oh well you teach college and you know, this that.
It's like, girl please.
I been black all my life, and I'm straight up and down, and you can add a little comma, period, exclamation point,  pause, double dash of that thing.
And you would need to read somebody's stuff.
And so I tell my students- I'd had some of the top  poets in Rochester come in my creative writing class,  and I said, don't tell me about anybody's poem-  about your poem if you can't tell me about anybody that you reading.
I don't wanna know-  don't tell me you write and you don't read.
I l- I-  I'm, uh, ugh- I'm not interested.
You gotta study, folk.
Whether you adapt to their style,  but you can't just  pop out of the clouds, and, I'm so great.
Cause somebody else did that,  and you need to know that.
Oh, hey.
So my first born son went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah, yeah.
Whe- when did you graduate?
He graduated two thousand ten.
RD-NAME-1.
But he was, um-  cello, he played cello.
Yeah.
He got a pointy face.
You probably would.
Yeah.
and- right,  and put your ego away.
Good.
Good.
Hey, viva la RD-SCHOOL-2.
Yeah.
I love the seasons.
I think that we-  and I don't like s-  I like snow  but I want it like, on the sidewalks.
That's it.
But on the grass part of the sidewalk, not on the walking part.
I wanna little sprinkle at night if it's the weekend, you can get on the ground, and so I can stay home.
On the trees, but on the street when I gotta drive, I don't like that.
But I do like  the fact that my children, know, see, like true- well, construction not  counting.
But my children know true seasons.
I love  Rochester's rich history with black folks.
I don't think we talk about that enough.
Um,  I love its proximity to everything else.
Like you can get from downtown Rochester to  anywhere pretty much in twenty minutes.
I like that my family is here.
I like,  you know-  I just think that Rochester has such a rich  legacy,  and  it's one of those things that- particularly black people, we don't always own our place in Rochester,  and we don't own the ways that we helped build this city.
And, um,  learning about Rochester's history, you know, July sixty-four,  learning about Jefferson Avenue, Corn Hill, and  Clarissa, and Pythodd or Pythodd, depending on who- who you talking to.
And jazz and blues and,  you know, cooking and,  you know, dancing.
I remember my own neighborhood block parties and a motorcycle club, and,  you know,  a- just-  Rochester.
So I love  a lot  about- I think every area of this city has,  uh, a unique  story that helps quilt this thing together.
Thank you.
Um,  well I didn't like that they tore my street down.
Like I really  was traumatized, and  I had to work at RD-SCHOOL-4, and I was mad every day for a while.
I'm like, you know, I used to live up under this doggone school.
You know, and my h- my- my neighborhood was so precious.
It wasn't perfect, but it was ours, you know.
Um,  I think that the educatio- uh,  RCSD  is-  I have such fond memories of school,  and-  even though I was one of only a few black kids in that school, which is a shame.
But I remember going on field trips.
We'd be at the Eastman Theatre looking at Paddington the bear.
I still love Paddington the bear.
Fro- I remember going on par-  on trips to Letchworth.
Just like, we had  just so many experiences.
Recess,  art.
I remember auditioning  for, um,  choir.
I never could sing,  but we had this like really dramatic, uh,  music teacher.
And I went down, and I had this theory that if I sang  in a quiet voice  for all the notes until I got to high notes and then I yelled for the high notes.
That was, you know, me hitting a high note.
And he was like, oh that was very dreadful.
And even being rejected, I don't think that kids in the cities get rejected.
Like, I had to,  you know, audition.
I didn't just get on choir because I was there, or I didn't just-  you know, we got a certificate.
So um, I have  really good penmanship  because we had to write.
That was, you know- we got a grade for that.
So my educational experiences,  um- it makes me sad when I look at some of the things that these kids are missing out on.
I'm very committed,  you know, we were committed to city living.
We could live somewhere else, but love-  love the city, love neighborhoods,  you know, um,  love my street.
It has a lot of diversity.
Um, I hate the word diversity and inclusion but whatever.
Um,  but just really  I like the n- I like neighborhoods.
I like that each  area has its own identity.
But I think that in some ways, it gets in, uh- in the way  because people are like, I'm from over here and this is what we- just like, okay well  alright take that over there and get 'em some of that.
You know, I'm always  talking about, when we did the Fresh Air Fund and the Fresh Air Fund,  you know, folks go downstate, and they take urban kids and they,  you know, take them  from downstate to upstate rather.
And they take 'em to farms.
I'm like, well why can't somebody go from Browncroft  neighborhood, and get somebody off of  Joseph Avenue,  and take those kids, and let them experience some stuff cause you have people who haven't been off their blocks.
So I think that we can do a better job of  ka- talking across communities  as well as, you know, our city schoo- our schools man.
Charter schools can't be-      I c- I could cry about it.
You know, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right, and then you wonder how many of those kids have just been pushed through.
Cause then they come to school, and we looking at their stuff.
And I'm like-  but I had to tell somebody recently,  y'all kids in Irondequoit,  if you all call my kids dumb, are dumb too.
I see the way they write.
I- I see the things that they say to c-  you know, critical thinking.
You know, but they have more opportunity, and they have more people who are willing to work with them and give them supportive services.
You know, we look at, um, special education,  and we always think of the remedial courses, but we don't consider, you know, major achievement or anything like that.
I think we need more, um, hands on, exploratory, expeditionary learning.
I think that we need, um, more people who are invested in- in-  in these  urban schools  and not the ones  who are not true urban communities.
Like if you are,  you know, Browncroft, it's not a true- like there's street signs on Brown.
Y'all don't even look like the rest of the city.
You know, the nineteenth ward has something very beautiful happening.
But we can duplicate that throughout-  but if you see the schools, they don't represent  the neighborhoods,  you know.
And so, um,  level of poverty, it's, uh, disheartening, the le- the level of violence.
You know, um,  I want more people to use the libraries  I- I made a commitment like eight months ago  not to buy,  um,  books cause I have   a million and one books.
And I've been using my- I go to everybody library.
Everybody at my house, I'm using everybody's library card.
Like if I stay here long, know I'm gonna use your library card.
Yeah.
So I don't know if we use enough sense that says listen to you talking about Adams Street.
My son had to take  swimming lessons there when he was, um-  for boy scouts and almost an eagle scout.
So I wanted to make sure I used all areas in the city.
Like I'm using all these libraries.
So I'm gonna-  that's something I'm taking away from the day.
Mm.
No, what?
No no, go ahead.
It's all we got.
It's all we got right now.
Diverse?
Um,  theoretically, you could look around and say,  um, that we have this group of black folks and this group of white folks, but when you do the scramble, and I think there was a study  that was just released that, you know, New York schools were th- you know, some of the most segregated.
So if you do it demographically  in terms of just numbers, and you look, okay.
Well you might see some numbers that might make you think that,  but when you start looking at how the neighborhoods mix.
I know my neighborhood- I live  on RD-ADDRESS-1 Avenue in the city  but I live, and I hate to say this, I live between RD-ADDRESS-4.
When people hear that, like, oh  that's not- that's different.
That's upper RD-ADDRESS-1.
I'm like, we on upper RD-ADDRESS-1?
But if you look at how the street is structured,  all the other part of RD-ADDRESS-1 Avenue goes together,  then you get the significant gap,  and then you cross over,  and here I am.
And  my next door neighbor is a English professor at FLCC.
Lady down the street is the head director at the library.
You got black and white folks.
My cousin own a house right on the corner that we wanted to buy incidentally, but  they paid too much for it.
But,  you know, um, so I think the numbers are there, and I think-  so if you look at Browncroft, all white.
You look at Joseph, all black.
So you-  mix- oh well you got fifty and fifty.
That sound good.
Half and-  But then when you start like, wait a minute, wait a minute.
What do those neighborhoods look like and,  um, how do they mix together?
What do the schools in those neighborhoods look like?
But, you know, white folks still  are m- you know, the majority  in this area,  you know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well, I don't, but it's funny because  we were laughing about that the other day.
Someone said milk  or milk- I can't even do milk like that, but it-  so I'm kind of- I'm like, what  is that.
And I'm like, that's a Rochester?
And so, you know, when you travel other places like if you go down south, you from New York, so everybody sound cool,  so that I'm a rapper.
You know, I gotta go down there like, yo what's up son.
Yo kid.
Yo what's up.
I'm like, what am I saying?
Like this is not even me.
Like, what- all of a sudden I'm in a DMX video, you know.
So, um, I've never heard that for me particularly, but I've heard-  in particular, but I've heard other people, and I'm like, oh,  that must be  what we sound like to other people, but there's a- that-  that milk  or milk- I'm like, what?
Or onion , onion.
I'm like, what is that?
But I've heard it.
But I think that my speech patterns have been  more influenced by my grandmother.
So I get more often, oh you sound like you from the South, or- and I'm like, oh   kay well I'll come on y'all.
Cause I say- I don't say, uh,  pop.
I say soda.
I say denim and tennis shoes, you know, and so,  um- but yeah, I definitely have heard the Rochester-  and when I hear it, it's- I'm like, oh where they- oh, Rochester.
Sorry.
Well, my son is younger than me  but- so- but I don't even know where he got- I'm like- he was all like, what's a milk?
Like, what?
I can't even- like milk?
Um,  probably younger folks, probably more aro- amongst my students,  you know, white folks,  you know, more- I don't really think that  black folks really have this Rochester thing.
I've heard it too, or l- yeah.
I was like, uh.
Uh-uh.
I was like, what?
I'm confusled.
Right.
Right.
Right, right Right.
Right.
Hm.
Yeah.
If you go down south, yeah.
Okay.
Here.
Yeah.
It- it- it's just like, oh, uh, okay oh you know they say I sound like y'all.
Girl, stop.
You don't sound like us.
Oh sorry.
But they hear New York and it's j- you know, New York is just New York City which- ugh.
Been there, ugh.
Sorry.
We were just there.
I was like, I don't get it.
It's- this is- uh okay,  ugh.
No I- I think that, you know, I- I wanna say something about my grandmother who owned a restaurant, uh, Blue Flame, and it was  across- what is  number- it's Upper Falls and Hudson.
She was in that area in probably like the fifties.
And, uh, one of the things that she said that she had to get out of business because she had a hard time getting a liquor license,  and there's this white gentleman who told her, you know, nudge nudge, and this is always a fine woman.
You know, nudge nudge if you wanna, you know, sort of get into bed with me, we could, uh, we could do some things.
And she's like, no.
And she said, I shut my business down that week.
I was like, no.
And it just-  to me I often wonder she would've had more opportunities and other people would've had more opportunities  to, um- and- and going to my own experience in schooling, I know people have had  significant mentors, but that's usually the exception in school,  um, and so I'm just wondering if more people in Rochester would,  uh, lift these- lift people up  simply because they could.
Like you don't have to get an award for it.
You don't have to be  noticed or anything, but just because you could.
Um, I think that we would have a better community being in- interesting in- in  things that did not necessarily  impact ourselves on a- on a-  a first level  but just really,  you know, so I- it's good stuff.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Oh,  yes, I consent.
I consent.
Uh, yes.