Okay.
I don't want  you to be interrupted.
I should put my phone on vibrate too.
Nude is like the only color that I can really wear and feel good in besides black.
Or gray.
I'm like slowly getting into flesh tones.
I feel like I'm growing up because I- I can now wear another color.
Okay.
Alright, hey.
Yes, I have.
Um, the s- the South Side, the South Wedge.
RD-ADDRESS-3-  whatever neighborhood.
That's a silly name, but yeah.
And then I grew up around there.
I've never lived anywhere else  other then like RD-ADDRESS-3.
Kind of around like, school.
Pretty much.
I've always lived around there.
Except for-  there was- there were like two years when  I lived in the hood, but that ended quickly.
And- and then I just moved back over here.
It was-    it was- it was RD-ADDRESS-4.
It was between RD-ADDRESS-5 on the East Side.
And there was a memorial literally  right in front of my porch with like, mad teddy bears and stuff.
Like, someone got shot right there.
And there was like a bullet hole in my room.
Like in my wall.
Um, I guess it went through.
I've always thought it was kind of cool, but-  but then on the way to school one day, I got like, chased by some girls who wanted my coat.
And then I just ran.
I ran and ran and ran until- it was in the morning and I was waiting for the bus.
And I ran and ran until I caught the bus.
And I was like, I- maybe I should move, maybe we should move.
Like  this isn't working out.
Like .
But other than that, you know, it wasn't so bad.
At all.
I just- I think I need to stick to, uh, The Wedge.
And- and Monroe.
Nope, just my mom.
My mom is a preschool teacher.
Yep.
She works for a not-for-profit, um, on the East Side.
It's called RD-WORK-6.
Yep.
She's been there for like ten years.
It sucks because  everything is-  it works off of funding, so.
I don't know.
I always felt like she should make more because she does a lot, but  everyone says teachers make shitty pay.
And I guess that's true.
It sucks though.
I feel like,  it's-  it's so much  more important than people seem to think.
And I always think like she comes home tired when they have a cold, she catches the cold, she brings it home.
Like, she'll come home like, bruised because like some little kid- some badass little kid decided to like, punch her.
Like, some of them  are like    problem children.
Which I don't think that's true either, but.
They just are a little bit out of control and  so,  yeah.
But I think she should  make a lot more .
but  that's what she does.
And she likes it, so.
Um, she didn't work when I was  growing up.
She just took care of me.
So,  she didn't work until I was sixteen.
Um,  We had to go live with my grandmother.
I guess she just really wanted to raise me herself like, she didn't want to put me in daycare.
Or anything, um.
So I grew up a little isolated.
Like .
I guess.
And she,  just,  she knew that I was always artsy and RD-SCHOOL-4 was her first choice.
Um,  cause it was my first choice, I thought it would be fun.
And so, I got in.
That was back when the lottery was a thing.
Yeah.
Mm-mm nope.
I was there since sixth grade.
It was the best.
I would go back right now.
Like, fuck being an adult.
I would go back right now, tomorrow, and it would be the best.
I can't think of like a better time period in my life than high school, even though I was not popular.
At all .
I was so- oh I was ugly until like the ten grade.
Like, I was.
I was.
It was horrible.
And then I got boobs.
And then high school was like  totally different.
But even before like, even when no one talked to me, like  it was still the best.
I loved it.
Didn't you love it?
No.
No no, no no, I'm not either .
Yeah.
I'd like to be a stay at home mom.
I really would.
No.
Yeah.
I- I absolutely agree.
I-  It's a job.
It's, uh, a legitimate job.
Too bad people don't  see it that way but it is.
It's just as important as going and punching in somewhere.
I mean it's way better, cause who even wants to punch in somewhere.
Like, I've never been able to keep a job that I punch in at.
Ever.
Like, I  unintentionally just,  like I think mess it up, because I can't do it.
I think- I think it's slowly just grows and grows.
Like the resentment, or whatever of being like in a place, where you're monitored, like, uh, I'm gonna punch in now, I'm gonna punch out, like I- it feels so normal that it's terrible.
So eventually, like  I get fired or I quit .
But,  Yeah.
I w- I would like to be a stay-at-home mom someday.
Before my ovaries, like atrophy, and die, hopefully  Mm-mm, where?
Where?
Mm-hm, I don't know.
No, no, no.
I don't know.
Um.
Yeah, I did.
I- I- from like, tenth on, I had like a couple of friends that I  finally felt like I fit in with, but  I didn't  have like,  I didn't have  a place where I felt like I belonged.
It wasn't.
Like, I kind of got like the shitty end of the stick in high school.
For- for a while.
Like, I loved school.
I loved actual school.
Like I never hated school, but, uh,  it took a while to find people who I think  like,  wanted to be friend and by tenth grade, I think  maybe I found them.
Yeah I do, actually.
Um,  I talk to at least a couple of them.
And it's funny cause we are still  really close.
Um.
and-it- it's funny how it turned out that way, but  I think we always will be.
Yeah there is  someone that I don't talk to anymore.
And  um,  and then obviously, like,  I dated RD-NAME-1 after high school.
Forever.
We're- we're good.
We're just not together.
But, um,  and that was funny  too cause that,  I thought we were gonna get married.
And I was like, am I really gonna marry someone that I met in fucking high school, like, I've known him for so long.
How are we s- how are we still like, in contact.
In a- in a thing.
How?
But it's just like that, I feel like,  I don't know, if it was like the class of o-seven.
or- uh- something about us, but yeah I'm still pretty close to a lot of  the people who I was back then.
It was theater.
Mm-hm.
It was.
Um, I liked, the fact that I didn't have to take gym, cause they made us take gym cause they made us take dance.
And they also taught you how to sing.
And I-  It was like a bunch of majors in one.
W- we had to take dance everyday.
And we also, like  had to take voice lessons.
so it's kind of like, a little bit of vocal, and it was a lot of dance actually.
And it was interesting, and it was fun.
And  that's what attracted me to it.
I couldn't.
I- I couldn't participate in all the shows.
And I really wanted too, cause I didn't have a ride back from like, late rehearsals and my mom, I guess was a little overprotective, and she worried.
And she couldn't like, drive me home  at the times when  rehearsals would end And I guess I always kind of resented her for that, cause I would have been on the stage a lot more.
But.
I mean,  we- we had to see all of the shows too anyway.
So we could like, write about them.
And  so we got to see them all anyway.
I don't know if I had a favorite show.
I swore we were gonna do Grease one day, so I learned all the songs, just because I thought we were gonna do it.
And I was like,  wait, I was like when we do it,  like in September when we found out all the shows that were gonna happen.
I was like watch, one day, I'm gonna come to school, like one year,  and they're gonna say Grease, and I'm gonna kill everything.
because I know, every song.
And like, it n- never happened but- So I always hoped we would do Grease, but we didn't.
I was in one play.
And I was in the ninth grade.
And I was a second lead.
Which I guess was okay, but it wasn't good enough.
You know it wasn't good enough for me.
You know I wanted to go further, but I didn't really get a chance to- to do a lot more plays, but that's okay.
Cause watching them  was just as fun.
Maybe.
Not really, but it was still fun.
I should have been a creative writing major.
I should've.
I should've, but I was,  like,  I was stuck on drama.
I wanted to get noticed and nobody ever noticed me until- Like they noticed me for the wrong reasons.
Like, when I was almost done with high school.
And I always knew it was the wrong reasons, but looking- Um.
Well I feel like  when I grew boobs, people like- like boys started to look at me.
And like, I'd have a crush on a boy forever, but like,  I don't know, my clothes were fucked up.
And like,  I was kind of broke and, grew up kind of poor.
So I never really looked my best.
And maybe- I mean I was like skinny, and I was a stick figure.
I didn't have anything.
So I don't think I was really like, noticed until,  oh, of course  you got boobs.
now it's like, oh, it's like there's a new person in class.
I've been here since the sixth grade.
Like,  you know, I've been here like, and no one looked, but- but    i- it all balanced out and evened out.
And it still was like the best experience.
So, Um.
I can't even really say that I've changed, cause I was still  developing.
They were formative years.
So like, I can't say I was something and now I'm something else.
I didn't even think I was ready, to pop out of any type of shell, like.
Like I lost my virginity like,  two months before we graduated.
And like, I had to listen to everyone else talking about sex forever, and I was just like, I'm not ready, I'm not ready, I'm not ready.
How could you do that?
Like, I didn't get kissed till I was sixteen, almost seventeen.
Like not even one kiss.
So I feel like I was a late bloomer in that aspect.
And so, I can't even say I was something.
I think when I graduated, my- my mom finally let me cut my hair.
Cause I wanted to cut it forever.
And then I-  I cut my hair and I started modeling and then I shaved my head .
And then it just, I li- I just did what I wanted.
And- and I didn't really- I think once I was like, free from my  kind of  restricted  home life.
I just did exactly what I wanted to do.
I don't know, I've always done exactly what I wanted to do and that's probably changed.
But, what I've been doing hasn't changed.
But what I've- what I've want has- has changed slightly, so I just go with that.
Um,  started in high school.
I did one of those stupid- you remember In Control?
So I did one of their stupid fashion shows.
That wasn't really a fashion show.
But like, for us it was, I guess back then.
And then RD-NAME-2's mom   wanted me to do her  her hair show.
And I  did her hair show for like three years straight.
And then it just went on from there.
And-  and it- I started off really small.
And I'm still doing it,  but  I know I can't do it forever, I don't really wanna do it for much longer.
I'm twenty-six now, and I've been doing it for nine years and eh, it's really not the greatest  honestly.
You worry about your body and it makes you look at yourself under like a- a- a far stricter like,  magnifying glass than you would if you  weren't  in this field.
And- and you didn't have to worry about like  you're chosen because you look at certain way.
That's fucked up.
That is fucked up.
I don't know why anyone would want to actually do that.
But,  sometimes like, the finished product.
The piece of art is really nice.
And you were a part of it.
And I  take that seriously, but.
Like, I don't-  I think people make the mistake of like, thinking that pretty girls don't need to be told they're pretty.
N-no.
Nobody tell pretty girls they're pretty.
Because  people like you, think she doesn't need to hear it, cause people like you think other people tell her all the time, but really nobody tells her Because everybody thinks that she's hearing it from some- somewhere else.
And then she ends up hearing it from nowhere.
So if you combine that with,  uh,  a career goal,  that  it- it- it only reaches success if someone  likes the way you look.
You could be  good at eighty-five thousand things, but if you don't look like this, it's like, bye.
And that,  like completely messes you up.
So,  it's not fun.
But if you can separate  yourself from all that and just-  like I found the art to focus on.
That part of it is fun.
And I think as long as people wanna photograph me,  I'll just let them  until-  until I really don't want to anymore.
But at this point it's about-  like, I- I'm not even really trying too hard anymore.
I take what comes like, people- if people approach me and they're like, I think that  you should do this,  like, now I'm at the point where I've been doing it for nine years, so people know that, that's what I do.
So I don't have to like  run around and- and a- I don't audition for things here anymore.
That would be silly.
Here like,  I'm not gonna do that here.
But,  now I just- I kind of like have- I more relaxed about it.
And I'll just take whatever comes.
And if it doesn't come for a while, an- um- then I-  maybe I'll decide to stop.
But,  it's a really not a big deal and it sucks.
Not fun.
I like to get dirty like, I like to have weird, I like the weirder the better.
I-  I- I'm not tall,  I'm not thin, so  I'm  fairly like, modified, as far as my outside.
So, and then my hair is really short.
So it's just like, I- I- even though, you would think that would limit you, And- and I guess it does,  but I always knew I couldn't be like a Victoria Secret model.
So, in the world of like the alternative, I guess if you wanna call it the alternative,  which I also think is silly, but whatever.
Um,  it- it hasn't been so difficult really.
I like to get dirty though.
Like,  get weird.
I- I-  I would shoot out in the cold,  or in water, or I've been covered in baby powder and like, completely topless.
Like, I've done plenty of nude shoots,  or,  uh, implied nude.
I don't know, I just feel like    that's the fun part.
And I think if you try and you push yourself,  um,  versus, saying like, nah don't cut my hair.
I've cut my hair every time somebody wanted to- me to cut my hair for a- a picture.
It's just hair.
I- it's just hair and it grows back.
And so like, I just feel like if I don't go for it, then  what's the point of ever having done it, you know.
Like, I'm never gonna be on- on a runway on television.
But  f- for  you know, as far as just like, being a functional  model,  that's  what it actually takes.
So,  so  that's what I would prefer.
I like extreme  shoots.
I'd probably cut my hair again if someone asked me to.
If it was worth it.
Yeah.
So, Thank you.
I finally love my hair.
Finally.
I hated it for so long.
Yeah, it wasn't kinky and it wasn't straight.
And so,  I was like, well my hair is stupid.
W- like it doesn't do anything.
Like, I couldn't ever really get a handle on it.
I always wanted to- to cut my hair, my mom never let me.
And I just had like,  big curly hair.
And I guess now looking back it was  probably beautiful, but at the time it did not feel beautiful to me.
I always wanted hair I couldn't have.
So.
I finally like my hair now I think though.
Finally.
I think I'm gonna leave it alone for a while and see what happens.
I love your hair.
I do love your hair.
you have- there's this picture of you that's on facebook and it was like you and it was like  big.
It was- like you had like the big fro one and it was- I could like see the curls in it.
Oh so pretty.
It was so pretty.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
I understand what you mean, I do.
I don't think anyone likes their hair in high school.
I really don't.
I've never had one.
No.
I've never had one.
I might try my first one out this week.
Just cause I wanna try it.
I'm pretty sure I'm gonna snatch it out of my head immediately.
I can't.
I- I just- I've had like tracks.
Like a track or two glued in, like for a photoshoot and I just- I couldn't even stand it for a day, I had to rip it out.
Feels unnatural to me.
I feel incredibly ridiculous walking around with hair glued in my head.
And that's not knocking other people who do it.
Like I wanna try it seriously and try to commit to it for at least a week.
But I just feel like everyone can see it.
Like, oh my god,  how stupid does that girl look with h- with hair glued into her head.
Like, she has hair an- let in- and that's where like,  that's what got me.
It was like mental for me.
Which made me feel like it was like itching and I had to rip it out.
But,  I don't know, natural hair comes in a lot of different- I- it took me a long time to realize that natural hair can be straight if that's your texture.
Like, I am not gonna feel shitty because my hair doesn't really curl.
It just is what it is.
And I'm not gonna feel bad about it.
Like, It was funny cause I  auditioned for a black hair show  and I  was told I- they wouldn't let me in.
Because my hair wasn't kinky enough.
And it was crazy.
I was like,  but I don't have a perm.
They thought I had a perm and I didn't.
And like I let them like, I let them go through my head and everything.
Like it was kind of demeaning.
And they were like, no, like, you can't.
We can't let you in the show.
Like we feel like little girls are gonna look at you  and  they're not gonna see their own hair.
and I was like, but that's not fair because, because,  like, w-  w- how- how could you say that we only come in like one,  or two  uh- like, versions.
I don't even know what to say.
Like and it was crazy.
And I wanted to do it because I felt like I hadn't done work like that in a while.
Like,  it was for charity.
And also I thought it would be really- I wanted to do it, cause I hadn't done- I hadn't worked with, like  uh, a staff that-  like a staff of color in while on a photoshoot or anything.
And I was like, this might be fun.
I just wanna like get back to this.
I started off doing black hair shows.
But this one that was like specifically actually for, like it was supposed to uplift and be positive.
And it was like  their whole message was like, we want little girls and boys to look on the runway and like see themselves.
And I was like,  there are little girls and boys out there who feel exactly this way.
And you're basically telling them the same thing.
Like what if a little mixed girl comes to this runway show.
She might see one person who she identifies with and that might be me.
You can't just discount that you know.
But like, that's why I've had like, I've had issues with my hair forever.
And like, I felt the worst.
Like, I wanted to cry.
I did.
I did.
Like, I don't know.
It was- taken me so long to get used to it.
I think that's why I always shave it off.
I hate it.
It's never good enough for whatever- Whatever.
I don't even know what's standard.
Um,  no.
I never felt like that.
I feel like walking around with that mind state is horrible.
And you're just like an angry Facebook person if you walk around and you live your life like that.
I'm discriminated against, oh my god.
Like,  no.
Like a lot of times it's not like that.
And I refuse to- I refuse to think that things happen because of that.
So I- I don't tr- like, try- I don't try to dwell there.
But- but sometimes it- sometimes it is.
And there have been maybe two or three situations where  I had to  think about it.
And I was like, you know what, that did happen because of that.
It did.
But it feels really good not to wake up everyday and think like that, so no.
I really don't think that, um,  I really don't think that it has been, I mean if anything,  I feel like, in- in some situations, I-    hm, there's still- there's still,  places and setups where like,  a token black person is needed.
But I think- I think and it's funny, cause  since we're talking about like, speech and stuff,  I think because I sound the way I do, or maybe I look the way I do, like  I think,  people are comfortable.
Like,  letting me be that.
Like if they need to be inclusive, then if I'm included, I think it sets them at ease.
Because I don't think they think they'll have an issue.
Like, relating to me maybe.
Even though everyone does  in the end.
But like, it just seems to be easier for people.
Usually  people don't know what I am before they see me.
And I work a lot on the phone.
I work a lot in customer service.
And  it sucks, and I- I've learned to notice that too.
And- and that's why like, I don't think I'll be doing this for much longer, but.
Um,  yeah.
It seems easier for people to  relate.
A lot of people- like I've worked in places and finally quit.
And- and my boss will be like, I didn't know you were black.
Then I'm like, oh.
Okay, sorry.
Sorry that you- you definitely hired a black person for the last six months.
It's kind of like, haha gotchu.
I'm quitting now, but gotchu, fuck you, like yeah.
You had a black girl at the front counter this entire time and you didn't know.
And I hear a lot of things.
Like,  that I- I feel like I almost shouldn't be hearing.
Because people don't know,  or they just assume, or they know, but they don't bother to ask.
And so it's funny cause a lot of times like, I'll hear  conversations that happen that  would not be happening if  people thought that I would be offended by whatever they were saying.
I hear stuff like that all the time.
And sometimes I just keep my mouth shut and a week later, I'll quit, or I'll leave, or I'll  leave a project.
Or I'll just decide not to talk to someone anymore.
But.
So it's like it works both ways.
Like a gift and a curse.
Except for my hair.
That's probably just a curse.
But It's pretty interesting.
Like, how that's worked out.
Careers.
Um, I wanna go back to college.
I've fucked off in college.
Um,  my mom pressured me to go.
She made me apply to Harvard.
No.
I never wanted  to go.
I never wanted to go.
I- god I didn't wanna go.
Um, and I went to RD-SCHOOL-3 I think just to make her happy.
But RD-SCHOOL-3 never even had the majors that I wanted to do.
So- and now I'm in debt.
but I'm in debt for the wrong reasons.
If I'm gonna be- if I'm gonna be a hundred thousand dollars in debt, I wanna be happy and be going to school for exactly what I wanna do.
Or be accomplished .
I'm not-  and I'm neither of those things.
I  used my-  my loans  to pre-pay my rent  and then I realized that I couldn't work a full time job and a part time job and also go to school.
People who like, people who are allowed to live at home, are so lucky.
Because like, They don't have to worry about anything.
I  got kicked out when I was nineteen.
And I  had to kind of- I ended up having to choose  going to school and also worrying about like, wow I'm super tired because I just worked all day, but guess what, we have a test and I'm not gonna finish my homework because I need to sleep and like, It compounds and then it just explodes.
And so,  I tried school twice.
And I quit twice.
And then I was left with all this debt.
Debt that I would have rather  been in.
Would rather have been in if  I were learning something.
But I,  I wasn't learning anything.
And, um,  so I wanna kind of fix that.
I wanna go back to school.
Probably for creative writing this time.
Or for English literature and psychology.
I would do those.
And I would be really happy doing it.
I just-  like now I know.
And if I have a kid,  like, I'll just try not to make their life hell.
And make them feel like they can stay.
Like if you're not going to go to school, fine.
Like, I'm still not gonna kick you out, but if you are, I'm gonna  try to be extra supportive of that.
And like, considerate and mindful because that matters.
I would have been-  I would have gotten straight A's.
I would have gotten straight A's.
And all of the scholarships.
And it would have been amazing, but    I didn't have that opportunity.
So I wanna go back and fix it.
I'm probably gonna end up like, being a teacher just like my mom.
But  maybe like a professor I don't know.
I have- I have a  book of short stories that I'm trying to finish.
And  I don't know  like,  if anyone would buy it.
I feel like I'm gonna put it on Amazon, it's just gonna like, sit and like be chilling on Amazon forever.
And it's gonna be like- You know how they have like the ranks on Amazon.
It's gonna be like, twenty-four thousand, like, it's gonna be like, no one's gonna look at it.
No one's gonna look at it, but I feel like it's gonna be there,  and maybe when I die, maybe after I die, people are gonna be like, hey,  this is pretty good, maybe I'll read this book .
I don't I feel like, people just wanna follow me because they wanna see if I'm gonna take like, naked pictures, or, it's- and I- it's- and I- I'm not going to.
Like, I don't know.
I feel like people follow me for the wrong reasons too.
Like, nobody understands.
Nobody gets it.
I don't know why I have that many followers on Instagram.
Like, I'm not that interesting.
People unfollow me everyday.
I don't get it, but  I don't- I never like wanted it.
Leverage it to what?
like, that's what I'm trying to figure out like, this year.
I need a plan this year.
Because I'm twenty-six.
I'm gonna be twenty-seven and I don't really do anything.
I do a lot, but I also do nothing.
Because in the end like, it doesn't count.
It counts, but it's not counting towards a goal  that  matches up with my age.
Where I feel like I am.
Like, I can't just do shit anymore cause I feel like doing it.
I can, but I feel like it has to add up to something now,  cause I'm getting old.
So,  yeah.
Maybe I can leverage it into something.
But like,  when I think about like,  all these girls, with like the huge butts like, hosting everything like, I- I don't know, I just don't wanna do that.
On the flip side though,  I could host something  and it would probably be really fun.
But  I just feel like it's incidental.
Like I can if I decide to put makeup on, or do my hair or like,  get dressed up.
I- it w- it would happen.
And maybe somebody like- if I did that on a regular basis, maybe someone come along and ask me to do it.
Like, if I was like a-  I'm still like,  not a popular girl.
I'm still who I was in high school in that sense like, I don't care.
And it feels good not to care.
But,  it's something that I thought about leveraging.
I may find a way to use it,  but  I just like really, just wanna be happy.
I'm- I'm done with like, uh, everything else.
I think being happy is most important now.
Whatever that is.
Whatever that looks like, or ends up being.
That's really all I care about now.
Kind of don't wanna stay in the States.
I've never wanted to stay in the States.
I- for the last ten years I wanted to- I've kind of always wanted to move to England.
Always.
Always, always, always, but I don't even have my passport right now.
That's one thing I have to do.
I'm gonna- I'm- I'm trying to set small goals.
And I think if I can do it by the end of January like, at least get my passport, I'll feel good inside.
Like, but I- I do.
I don't really wanna stay here.
I've never felt like I've belonged here at all.
Well definitely not Rochester, but also just the States, at all.
I just, I always read books.
I never really watched TV but  we didn't have cable so I ended up watching PBS and it's all like, British television.
And I was like, wow like I wanna go there.
People sound really nice there.
To me like, people sounded educated and kind and like, warm.
They always sounded like they were telling a story.
Sounded like- sounded like listening to an audio book all the time.
And I was like, that sounds amazing.
I wanna be there.
Like,  And-  and then- and then when I realized like, black people can be British too Like,  it's just so, fucking awesome.
Like, when I was really little- when I was really really little, I thought they were only white.
And then I was like,  hey, I was like, like the first time I heard Naomi Campbell talk, I was like-  I walk like, oh, she's English, like  I- I don't know.
And- and-  I feel like it's more  I feel like everything's more open there.
I really do.
Seems like it.
I started watching British television and I realized there are so many more interracial couples, just randomly that you see.
Just watching television.
It's not weird.
Why is it so weird here?
Like why is it so,  fucking weird?
Why do we have to still even wonder  about it?
And it's- it's been like that for so long.
Um, over there.
It's just like an example.
It just seems like, some of the things that we worry about here, might not be  things that  people worry about over there.
it just seems so interesting.
I would love to go there.
And I'm in a relationship now.
For the first time in a very long time.
And I just- yeah, and I just don't know if  he would wanna go there.
But, I know I'm gonna end up there.
I mean hopefully he would wanna go with me,  but  I have to end up there.
I- I honestly feel like, I'm overdue.
Now I'm feeling like,  it's a little- not too late,  but now I feel like I'm late for something.
I almost feel like I'm late for an appointment because like I should be somewhere else.
I don't think I ever should have really, stayed this long here.
So,  maybe one day it'll happen.
Oh.
um,  we- I worked at a pizza shop,  um, over the summer.
And he delivered pizzas there.
And then he photographed me.
And then,  it was like this weird attraction.
I spent so long trying to convince him just to like me.
I had to work.
And I liked- I liked to work.
And it was just,  he- he's younger than I am too.
Which is crazy, cause that's not- I- that's not my type at all.
I can't even deal with guys my age.
Much less younger, but he never felt younger or seemed younger.
And I just-  We met there and we both quit.
Cause I think we both realized like, that we were exceptional individuals and we didn't belong in a  pizza shop with racist ass people who ran this pizza shop.
And like, we're like, hey, serve this slice to that black guy over there.
And then when I quit, nobody realized that I was black.
Oh hey, did you not think that was offensive, or weird?
Did you  notice me ignoring you, or walking away when I heard you say crazy shit like that.
Like,  it was just a weird, weird, weird, wrong, setup.
And it was like the twilight zone, but somehow we me there.
Like,  It was literally like a really dysfunctional business, that's part of like a sitcom on TV.
You know like the cafe that- F- that Friends was filmed at?
Like what if they did a show about the staff of the cafe, but the  staff of the cafe live in Upstate New York and they were just, like racist and prejudice and weird.
And dysfunctional, a- a- and like  that's what it was.
It was like, do I live- are- er- i- every time I come to work it's like, am I in a TV show right now?
Is this real life?
Like, how the fuck do I work here?
But  we just met in this bizarre place and then it's just kind of like developed from there.
And I finally-  After like months and months and months of trying, we finally just like  came together.
He finally-  finally listened to me and like  fell into my trap.
No, I didn't trap him.
I just for once, like in my whole life,  I decided to try  a whole different approach.
And  And to- to- just try being good.
Maybe just try being a good person.
Just fucking try.
And-  and I realized that I wanted to.
It wasn't work.
When I look back, it was a lot of work,  getting him to open up to me  over all of these months, but  kind of felt good.
And I figured at this point,  if I can't be a  completely good person and just try this and see if it works,  like I needed it to be like, the control in an experiment.
Like I need to do this and see if I can do this.
But if I can do this,  maybe I'm not like, as much of a shit person as I think I am.
And, and then I enjoyed it.
And it felt good and it was a lot of work, but it didn't feel like work.
And I think when it doesn't feel like a lot of work,  then you do love someone.
Cause if you find yourself like, oh hell no like, why am I doing this.
I'm doing too much.
Like,  w- when it comes to a person, I don't think you love them.
Um,  just-  Okay, when I say good, that's reductive,  but  i- it's also like, an umbrella word.
Trying to simplify it.
I guess  just, um,  I hate when people say like  selfless.
I don't- I don't think it's necessarily good to be selfless at all.
But  when you really feel like  you don't want the other person to be  I don't know like, hungry or tired, or like if they're cold and you're just like oh like here, I don't want you do be cold, cover up.
Or if you know they're hungry so you decided to cook.
Like,  and I was doing all this like, was before I even thought he ever liked me.
But I was like, You know what,  I'm gonna prove to you  that  there is one person out there  at least one,  which means that if there's me, there's more.
I just happened to be here.
But  I guess when I say  good, I decided to give what I needed.
Without having what I need  but giving it because I need it.
cause in some way, it is fulfilling.
It-  I didn't do with the expectation that I would get it back, but I think that's why I got it back, eventually.
It took w- a really long time, but I think if I know what I need, or I know what I grew up without, or I haven't had.
Not to say that the other person is deficient, everyone has different needs, but I think if you just give what you're missing, it does feel good.
Because it- I feel like it puts out into the air like,  maybe fucking someone on this planet will give that back to you.
Or just is capable of giving that back.
Just cause you didn't meet anyone up until now who gave it back, doesn't mean you can't give it to someone else.
So it kind of made me feel like stronger because of that.
And then it worked.
It did.
Um, I have to say that I- it's still like, I kind of like embarked on that whole journey for selfish reasons.
I did it for self improvement.
Yeah.
I mean you're right, but  I tried to keep that goal in mind and I tried to think that even if I got my heart broken, I still kno- at least know that I can-  I can try to be with someone without manipulation, or riding on the coat tails of something else, or like- Like, I think it's gonna be a- a lot easier for me.
I could take advantage of a lot of situations.
I could be a certain kind of girl I guess.
But I'm just not so,  fuck it.
I just have to like,  try things a different way.
And it felt good not to be manipulative, or like,  just get what I want, any other way, other than honesty.
That feels good.
Thanks .
Even still if I get my heart broken, it's gonna suck,  but  I still have England.
I literally- I think at this point,  I think if this doesn't work out, I'm just gonna leave.
There's nothing left.
Which sound like devastating, but it's not.
I just literally think I'd finish up my lease,  and  fucking just go.
And I think that's hopeful.
I don't think it's  like, oh my god I have nothing without you.
Like, don't leave me.
Like no, if you wanna leave,  consider what you're walking out on,  I hope it makes you feel like shit later.
But, um,  bye.
There's like a whole- there's a whole world.
So,  I'm really hopeful, but at the same time,  I feel like I'm  old enough  to not  fall apart over it.
Or if I fall apart,  put myself back together.
So.
A- and it won't be-  won't be the same.
When you have to put yourself back together over and over and over again, you never do it the same way.
It's impossible.
the pieces don't fit anymore, but  the- they just become something else, they just fit into something else.
You are someone else, but it'll be okay.
Hm.
Well- There are.
I didn't even start to like-   uh, this sucks cause I have a cold.
Um,  I didn't even start to like the city that I lived in until I was maybe twenty-five.
And I realized that it's not completely shitty.
And it actually is some people's goal to live here.
Some people, wanna move to Rochester.
It took me until twenty-five to realize that, cause I was like, ew what the fuck, who wants to be here.
Like,  why'd-  what-  no, but.
I mean,  um,  has it's weird artsy,  quirky things.
And like, I fit in on that scene.
And  i-  it's like,  our whole high school was like that,  even though like, within it there was still like- there was still like a caste system .
You know like,  but still, like, it was high school so of course.
But I feel like there are parts of Rochester that are like RD-SCHOOL-4.
Like they are artsy and quirky and weird and like different.
And I do appreciate that about our city.
Cause those are the people who would probably talk to me and start a conversation, like.
Those are the people that  I might find a friend  w- within.
And  there are some really talented artists here.
And- and the art scene obviously needs improvement, but,  um,  it's really, like, there are some really talented  artists here.
And I've seen beautiful art here and,  um,  I appreciate how affordable it is to live here.
Because I know that it's expensive in other places.
And I appreciate the fact that I can like, split a really nice brand new three bedroom with two other people and have my rent only be three-twenty a month.
Like,  you know, even if it's not my own place  and even if it's not,  you know, me living alone, or me living with my boyfriend, like  it's really nice.
You can like, make a home here.
And it's not expensive and in other places it's just like, oh my god.
like part of the reason why I haven't left is because I've never felt like I've been able to save up enough money to be okay,  somewhere else.
Um, without being in school or  just in any case even if I were in school, nobody wants to go somewhere and be broke.
Like,  nobody wants to do that.
Like I'm done with this struggle.
I'm done with this struggle .
And it doesn't have to be a struggle.
It really doesn't.
Even if it means that you have to stay in your hometown a little longer which is what I've done.
And I- I'm starting to feel  weird about it.
But that's like this year,  cause I'm twenty-six.
Like,  you might have to stay in your home town a little longer and it's okay.
Just to make sure like, everything is in line.
So,  I have started to appreciate this city.
And  I think it's really great for people who  are at a certain level of income.
I think it's terrible for people who aren't  sometimes.
Um, well, when I was sixteen I lived on the East Side.
In- in the hood.
It was legitimately that.
I hate people say it's the hood and it's like Culver Road.
No it's not.
You've never lived in a place where someone got shot and there are bullet holes in your- in your bedroom and people are chasing you because they want your coat and they don't have one and it's cold.
Like, that is the hood to me.
And it is.
The hood is not somewhere with slightly broke down buildings which are now trendy.
I mean, that is not the hood.
the worst- w- terrible things can happen to you in really beautiful places so, um,  I think that  like, places deep on the West Side and deep on the East Side are probably like in the city.
Yes like, but other than that,  like the numbered streets.
first street, second street, third street, fourth street are all terrible.
Obviously .
Um,  Hudson.
Even though, sometimes and I don't really have cause to drive down there anymore  I've noticed there's a lot more art over there,  than there was before.
There are a bunch of murals.
And like huge paintings on buildings.
And it just- it looks really nice and I don't know if it- that's changed anything, but at least someones bothered to like,  to do that and I like that a lot.
And it made me feel safer.
And more relaxed.
Even though there's like shit going on everywhere, like, when I was there, I was like oh this is nice.
Someone cared to do this, even in a place that's considered the worst area.
So,  that was really nice, but I would say those areas are probably considered the worst.
And then obviously like, the suburbs and Pittsford and Victor and  those are the best.
Um,  I guess to people.
Yeah.
There are pockets of-, there- there are pockets of diversity.
But  i- yeah.
It's definitely se- segregated.
And I realized that pretty early on.
And it's, uh, not uncomfortable because I did grow up here.
Doesn't have to be uncomfortable.
Um,  Unless you make it uncomfortable.
But  definitely  made me-  it- it propelled me to find a place where I was comfortable.
And that's here.
Where I see d- people that- I- I can't live somewhere where I don't see anyone who looks like me.
That's-  that would make me uncomfortable.
Like just no one.
Uh, tha- that's weird.
So, I- it made me decide to find where I wanted to live when I was an adult w- w- the areas that I wanted to  make a home in.
There were areas like this.
Like the artsy, weird, cultural  more cultural places like,  yeah there's a shit ton of white people everywhere,  there's white people everywhere, this is America, but  at the same time like,  there's almost equally as many people  that are everything else.
And that makes me feel like,  I don't even have to think about oh my god I live around people who don't look like me.
Oh my god.
Like,  I don't even think about it.
I'd rather live in a place that  doesn't make me think about it at all.
If I could- uh, if I could just never think about it until the day I die, I'd be perfectly happy.
So there are some areas that raise that comfort level for me.
Although, i- i- i- if I had to stay here, I would end up-  I would want to  buy a home.
Obviously, like  somewhere really nice.
I'd want a really nice house the architecture is- is  better in certain areas.
Like, the houses look less broke down  outside of the city.
And that's the truth.
It has nothing to do with like, the kind of people who live there.
It's just  these houses are really nice.
Like there are some beautiful beautiful houses here.
All the old mansions on East Avenue, like, if I could live there, ideally if I had to stay of course.
I'd live there.
But it doesn't have anything to do with who lives around there.
Or  the fact that I feel like the city is segregated.
I think it's just like,  just the place.
I'm thinking about just the house, or just the apartment.
And that's where I would ideally want to be, but  yeah I like this area.
It's really comfortable and nice.
I feel like it's- ju- it's like the grown up version of school kind of.
It is.
There's always weird club nights.
And like, ch- ch- different people coming to perform.
Not at the Armory or Blue Cross Arena, but just like, people.
Just doing stuff.
And they're not necessarily famous, but it's fun to go watch them.
So,  yeah.
Um.
They do-  they do because I  determined from when I was really young, not to have one.
I- so I know they do.
Especially with being a theater major and then like, doing voice work, which I still do.
Outside of-  of, um,  obviously of school,  after school I've  done  pretty consistent voice work over the years.
And I  took care and not I just sound like that.
Um,  not necessarily because I thought it was ugly,  but because I just wanted to-  I wanted people to remember me not because I sound like I'm from a certain place.
And then like there are these t-shirts- have you seen the t-shirts that are like, um,  it's like Shawcross, Boss Sauce, um, something and Murder Rates and it's like a Ro- a Rochester t-shirt.
And it really is a dope t-shirt.
I kind of wanted one.
It's like a picture- i- it's like- it says like four things.
It says- I'm trying to think and I can't remember.
Um,  yeah.
And they rhyme.
Like it starts off with like, Boss Sauce,  something-  Oh, oh, yeah, it's Boss Sauce, Garbage Plates, Shawcross  Murder Rates.
It's- it's so dope though .
I love it.
And it was like the first Rochester thing.
Like, I see Rochester hoodies, or like hoodies with lilacs on them and I'm like, ew.
Like, fuck do I look like wearing that?
Like, somebody's- I look like somebody's grandma like, carrying a tote bag that says Rochester.
Like, fuck that.
But I saw this shirt and I was like, oh my god I need this shirt.
Um,  so, yeah.
Um,  what was I gonna say- Yeah people from Rochester do have an accent and I  have tried so hard  not to sound like that.
Do I sound like that to you?
I- I feel like- I f- I hope that when you figure it out, you think I don't sound like a Rochester person  I feel like it's nasal.
And I also feel like,  a lot of people come from  like, the city here.
So they're  a lot of people's moms are from the city area.
And then they have kids who are born here so they kind of, sound like it.
But it's fake, or it's like an echo of it.
It's not really the real thing.
And um,  people don't pronounce their consonants.
And people,  put emphasis on words- on different syllables and words like,  which makes them sound like they're from here.
Um,  kind of, but like, when you think about the word Rochester,  I say Rochester.
I don't really know why, but I do.
Maybe I trained myself to say it a long time ago, but I always hear people saying Rochester,  or Rochester.
Which is terrible.
I don't know why anybody  would say that.
But like,  the emphasis is on different parts of it.
And I feel like when it is, you can tell that somebody is  either from here, or from somewhere very far away from here and they don't know how to say the word.
So,  I don't know, there's definitely  a Rochester accent and i- i- it is the worst.
It's terrible .
I think when I get angry, I don't know, when I get angry, I end up sounding like an angry old jewish lady.
Like from Brooklyn.
I don't know.
It comes out when I'm angry.
Other than that, I think it's pretty steady.
And when I'm angry and do not think at all about the way I sound and I don't care, Bye are you leaving?
Are you leaving?
Mkay, have fun.
Um,  I think  I may- I don't know, I may sound,  uh, like I have a Rochester accent when I get angry, I don't know if that's what it is, but  my mom grew up in the Bronx.
And  she spent her childhood there.
And  um, part of her formative years, so maybe that's where it comes from.
I end up sounding like her a little bit.
But I tried really hard to like have the newscaster's accent.
No matter where I go, like I don't want people to ever be able to pinpoint that.
D- first of all it doesn't matter,  and second of all,  if I really think about it I guess it's like, unattractive to the ear.
That's probably because I'm from here.
Maybe other people like it.
Maybe people think it's adorable, oh it's so cute.
N- it's not.
to me but I don't know.
Like I'm sure British people don't think they have sexy accents, you know.
So, .
Yeah, so, maybe you'll find it.
And I really hope you don't find it on this recording .
I don't think you will but.
Maybe.
No, I hope you do.
I want you to use it for research purposes.
See that's so funny.
Like I just said research because you said research, but it didn't feel natural.
I mimicked you, but I've always said research.
And I don't know why.
Like it's so weird.
I don't know, maybe- maybe that's a Rochester thing Uh, maybe that's.
I have no idea but maybe that's a- a Rochester thing.
I don't really know if I count though, cause I really tried, really really hard  to modify  my speech before- before it became a pattern.
Before I got stuck in saying things a certain way.
Cause I wanted to sound more educated.
I did not wanna sound like my peers.
And I wanted  to look different in person than I sound on the phone.
I wanted to surprise people.
And I wanted to like have certain things be true despite what people would think about the way that I look.
And like,  I hope it worked.
When I have a kid,  I- I like I favor unisex names.
Cause I don't want my kid to get hired  just because they're a girl or a boy.
Or just because like,  their name sounds like something and this is who we want to hire.
What if my child has like an overtly black sounding name and you have to fill a quota.
Don't hire my kid just because of that.
Hire them because they're good at what they do.
Interview them, listen to them.
Like, you know.
Or also, don't hire my kid cause you thought they were white.
And then you're disappointed when they walk in for their interview, you know.
So it's like,  that was what I wanted to do by  originally not sounding like I was from a certain place.
But  I don't know.
Your whole- this seems really interesting.
And I definitely want to see, or read, or listen to whatever you- whatever the finished product is.
Um.
Yeah.
I guess I kind of wanna do what you're doing when I go back to school.
Just not  specifically.
I can't get this specific.
I don't think I know what I want quite yet.
But like understanding why people do what they do is  also why I would- why- what I'd wanna study if I  went back and thought it would make me any money.
Probably won't, but I think it's interesting.
And it'll make me happy.
And you seem like you're pretty happy and interested in what you're doing.
You shouldn't feel like that.
Or if you do, like I hope it's fulfilling.
But if you don't I think that's interesting.
Yeah.
the habit.
Yeah.
I can't wait to see what you come up with.
Thank you.
It has.
I'm sorry that I like lost my voice.