Okay.
Well, you got the right one, I like to run my mouth.
Sorry my phone.
Good .
Okay.
Okay.
I do, I do, yes.
I actually grew up right down the street, um, born and raised.
I grew up, um, in the eleventh ward on RD-ADDRESS-3 Street,  um, off the RD-NAME-2 in-  in what people would consider the hood.
But my street is very family oriented,  quiet street.
There's a church on my street, so, you know, there's-  S- everybody that has been on my street, has been there literally, since I've been there, with g- exception of maybe, two or three houses, so,  yeah.
All my life yes.
Including me, I'm still there, I'm not going anywhere,  like I'm'a milk this one out, I'm the baby  Right, right, I'm like, mm,  where I'm going, y'all need me here, so.
No yup, um,  twenty-six years I've been there, and  my dad has been there since eighty something, eighty-seven, something like that.
So he's been there  almost thirty years, if not more  at this point, yeah.
Wow,  that's crazy  to think about that.
Um, definitely African American primarily,  um,   there is a more-  I'm not sure, but over the years, I've kind of  subconsciously labeled them as Mormon.
I don't know if they're Mormon, but they kind of behave like Mormons.
At the end of my street there's a family,  um,  of  white people,  and you kind of have seen the  family evolve over the years, but they're very  secluded, keep to themselves.
They look like they  make their own clothes, and  I've never- I've only seen them drive a few times, but  usually they walk everywhere.
So um,   other than that, it's mostly, um, African Americans.
There's a few houses that are rented, so  I've seen a few Asian people move in and out.
Um,    and  one-  Um, actually I take that back.
Two of my neighbors  and one of my best friends and my first best friends that lived next door to me, she was white too.
So my first best friend was actually a white girl.
Um, and then my neighbor on my other side, she's white also.
So,  there's a mix but mostly African American, yeah.
Funny thing is, my mom did not-  um,  she didn't play that.
So she w- she would let me go out there with, um,  kids across the street.
My best friend next door, she'd let me go next door.
Her name was RD-NAME-4.
And when RD-NAME-4 moved, I was about six or seven.
My mom kind of  said, okay I don't know if I really like the other neighbors, so,  you know, we gonna keep you in front of our house in the backyard where I can see you.
Um,  I did play across the street with the kids.
There weren't a ton of kids my age.
Actually do you- you remember RD-NAME-4, yeah.
He lives on my street too, so, um, I grew up playing with him too.
But he's a boy, so of course, you know, mom's like, okay as far as I can see you with that one.
Um,   so I played with him, and then there were another set of kids across the street.
But they got a dog, um,  when I was about eight,  maybe.
My mom didn't- like, it was a pitbull so my mom was like,  no you can't go over there anymore, so.
I spent a lot of time, um, actually   with my aunt, um, who lived on RD-ADDRESS-2, cause my mom worked evenings and my dad worked a trick shift, so he was working days and nights.
So I spent a lot of time over there,  ton of kids over there though,  that I  used to play with, so  yeah.
No, I was really family oriented.
My mom, um, didn't,  like  me being outside of  the family so if anybody watched me, it was family.
So I was always at my uncle's house or my aunt's house or my grandmother for a very long time took care of me.
Um,  my other- both- I know both of my maternal- or my maternal and my paternal grandmothers took care of me,  until my mother's mom moved  to Alabama, and then my father's mom watched me.
And as I got older, you know, I got bored at my grandma's house, so I started going to my aunt's house, so yeah.
Definitely yeah I had a no business on the east side.
I didn't even know the east side existed.
Um, my mom was good about taking me to- she always took me out, you know, whether it was like a weekend at Corning Museum or, you know, doing different things, she took me out, but  I didn't have no business on the east side.
I didn't know what it was until I got older, so definitely a west sider.
Um,   so, the- the west side,  I'd say-  not even- I don't know, I feel like, um, there's m-  more family oriented, people- working class people,  um,  families, working class people.
Whereas the east side is kind of-  it's bigger, so you have more opportunity for subsidized housing and people that get, um,    you know, government assistance.
Not saying that that doesn't exist on this side, but I just find that there's a higher percentage of homeowners per se  on the west side, but it's smaller, so  I don't know percentage-wise if you could actually-  how it would stack up, but.
The east side is kind of like the wild wild west.
Yeah, yeah on the west side, you know, with the exception of maybe like Jefferson, you know, there's a few areas that are kind of like, woo I wouldn't go over there, but  it's more of a  friendly neighborhood I'd say.
My opinion.
Oh gosh, I cannot  think of the-  I went to kindergarten at  either- I think it was RD-SCHOOL-4, I can't remember.
But from RD-SCHOOL-4 I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, school number RD-SCHOOL-2.
And from there, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2, and that's where I graduated from.
So I didn't do too much jumping around.
I was- pretty much in the same place, stability.
Mm-hm.
Middle school, I started in middle school, so.
I started and never left.
I fell in love.
My, um-  actually, for high school, my options were either go to Nazareth  or,  Wilson,  and my mom was like you're not going to Wilson.
I didn't really want to go to Wilson because a lot of the kids I went to elementary from-  I was overweight growing up,  so a lot of the kids were going to Wilson, and I didn't want to go because they used to tease me all the time, so I didn't want to go to Wilson.
And I didn't want to go to a all girls school, cause I was like, great I'm never gonna have a boyfriend.
So I didn't want to go to Nazareth.
Um, s- in RD-SCHOOL-4 c- I've always been a active kid, dancing, um, cheerleading.
I was always in something, so RD-SCHOOL-4 made the most sense honestly, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Um, I always dabbled in everything though.
Cause sixth grade when we started, they had like an explore arts program, so you kind of did everything.
You went through vocal, drama, music, creative writing.
Um, but dance was just my  thing, it was my go-to, so,  that's what I stuck with.
Although I  probably should have switched or tried double major with drama, probably would have  done well with that.
Yeah  Right,    Really,  aw.
Oh okay they do explore arts though, okay so it's not just like you got to go pick what you want,  Cause we were the last sixth grade class,  so,  the class of O eight, anybody that was there from middle school, was the last sixth grade class at  RD-SCHOOL-4, so.
Mm.
Yeah,  yeah mm.
Um, it was honestly the best-  one of the best times of my life.
Um, I really-  I'm really thankful that I went to that school for so many different reasons.
Um, it-  you know, I was always open minded anyway as an individual, but  going there, it allowed me to explore and  kind of figure out who I was at a young age.
Um, it was a outlet, and I got to experience so many things that  I would have never, in- even in my adulthood, I would have never- you know, I would have never got to dance with RD-NAME-3 if I didn't go to RD-SCHOOL-4, you know, so.
So many cool experiences, so many different people from different walks of life and,  um,  just kind of  the foundation of you never know what you're gonna get from somebody, so before you kind of judge you should  give somebody a chance to open up and see what they can offer.
I love that school.
Yeah,  yeah.
I mean, that's as far as the arts goes.
As far as the education portion, I'm a bit disappointed because, um, I'm a first generation  college student, so, um, you know, my parents'  goal back then was  work, get out.
You know, companies were around so my dad  got out of school and worked at Kodak, and he retired from there, so he was there for thirty-five plus years.
My mom's been with the state for  twenty-six years almost.
So, you know,  they got jobs and worked.
Um,   in school, n-  all I knew was  I'm going to college.
I didn't know how I got there,  how you pay for it, what to do.
So when I kind of got there,  I was stuck because my parents didn't really know  what to do, other than tell me, you're going to college.
So,  I don't think RD-SCHOOL-4 really prepared me  for  school.
They just wanted me to graduate.
And they pushed me along and I feel like, um- I was just have- actually I was just having this conversation with RD-NAME-2  about how, you know,  they didn't prepare me.
They- I don't feel like they  prepared me for college.
They just said, okay, get good grades, apply to school you want,  go there,  you'll be fine.
That's not-  that is not nearly-  Nobody told me, don't apply to a nursing program right out of high school.
And the first person that did was a black man,  and I took so much offense to it because I thought he was insulting my intelligence,  not realizing, you know,   you've never taken A and P, how are you gonna get into a nursing program, you know.
I didn't know that so,  looking back,  I wish I woulda listened to that man.
Cause it broke my heart when I applied and didn't get in.
But, um,  yeah, no.
Miss-  what was her name, um, the counselor.
I can't- Miss RD-NAME-1, tha- I feel like, was that-  Yeah, she was retiring?
She was getting ready to retire?
No.
still there.
No, it's- it was- my counselor was getting ready- she was supposed to retire the year that we graduated, but she stayed.
Or either the year before, and then she stayed for our year.
She didn't really check in with me.
It was just kind of like the beginning of the year, you know, you met with her,  and then I didn't really see her again until the end when it was already, you know,  too late.
Um,  but, you know, I wasn't a horrible student or anything, but I just-  I just was very disappointed in retrospect, looking back.
Then I had no idea.
I wish  they would've  prepared me a lot more  for school, so.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah,  cause they didn't tell you.
Yup.
Mm-mm.
Right.
And not that we weren't capable.
This is another thing that makes me mad.
We live in a college town, like,  I don't understand why  colleges don't,  you know, kind of advertise almost to- You know, if you go down south  everybody's goal from  middle school, maybe even,  um, elementary, it's to either, you know, play a sport, or they're gonna go to that- they're- they're gonna go to that university.
That's not the mindset here, like, I don't feel like that's the culture,  at least for the city schools, you know, maybe suburbs, little different, but I don't feel like they advertise, or  they  input themselves into the schools as much as they should.
Whereas, you know, people- I meet people from  all different places and they're like, yeah I know the U of R, I know, I've heard about it, and  you're a little more excited than me, and I live there, you know.
You hear great things about it, you not from here.
I don't know, I've always wondered about that too.
I just feel like  they don't really  advertise to  the city schools and  kind of help bring them up so that you're ready for their  curriculum when you get there, so.
Right.
And not that you weren't capable, you know, but had you had mindset of this is what I need in ninth grade to get here,  your perspective probably would've been totally different, you know, you woulda been AP-ed out from ninth grade all the way up until, you know, so.
Yes.
Yes.
That critical thinking, you know, we were able to figure it out, even if you didn't know, you gonna figure out a way to make it happen, so.
I think I agree.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I applied- I only applied to Brockport, again not even  realizing there was so much more out there than just  New York State, you know.
Looking back, I wish I would've applied to a down south school.
I wish I would've gone-  You know, I should've been on the drum line, dancing, doing something, but I didn't even know that-  you know, you see it in the movies, but I didn't know that this culture actually existed and, um,   again, my parents didn't really  speak anything other th-  speak anything into me other than, you're going to college.
So, you know, the culture, and what to expect and  they didn't know cause they didn't go, and I was first generation college, so  literally like, the first person in my family to actually fill out a application.
I had a older cousin who  g- um, was brilliant.
She had all  straight As and even got scholarships but she ended up getting pregnant.
So she didn't go.
And, you know, she was kind of like my role model, so  when she just kind of  got out of school and worked, I was like, okay well,  what's life, you know, you just  go to college.
So I applied to Brockport,    didn't get in because I applied right to the nursing program.
And my father goes, well, I'm not paying for you to take liberal arts there.
We don't have any money, so  you're going to MCC.
I'm like I don't wanna go to MCC.
That's thirteenth grade.
That's all I've heard all my life.
So I ended up, um, kind of last minute just  picking RD-SCHOOL-3,  which was a horrible mistake.
Yeah, it was horrible.
I- because I wasn't stimulated.
I was bored, you know, I literally- I was almost depressed even because I literally was just going to school and just  working and going to school wor- I was working three jobs just to keep up with  school books and tuition cause I didn't get any financial aid.
I didn't qualify for EOP.
I- I like didn't have any help, and I had to take out loans in my name, so it was just like,  I'm working, I wasn't ready for all this responsibility, and now I'm adjusting to school, you know, nobody's really  explaining how this works, a Q, a W, or whatever.
You know what I'm saying, nothing- nobody explained anything to me, so.
Um,  I went there for two years, and I,  um, ended up being waitlisted for the nursing program,  and after  I went back for a semester and I was like, I'm not happy.
So I went and got my LPN.
Ended up doing that, which I wish I would've  done first actually, if I would've known about vocational school.
Had I had known that option was available,  I actually would've just done that.
Um,  I'm the type of person who needs experience to learn.
So,  you can spew  everything from a book to me, but if I can't apply it to anything, like, and make it tangible, it- it just doesn't  stick to me.
So,  going to LPN school and getting my LPN in ten months and being able to actually work in the field,  made so much sense.
Except now, I'm in this point where I was like, okay I'm'a go back to school, I'm'a go back to school and here we are seven years later, I'm just now signing back up to go to school, so.
I'm actually gonna be, um, starting RD-SCHOOL-3 in two weeks to finish out my RN.
Yay,  but I'm mad at myself, because I let my sciences expire.
So, I have to retake my sciences, and- but the journey was worth the experience that I've gained.
Going through the process, so.
No worries.
If I passed it before, I know I can pass it again, so,  yeah.
But yeah, yes, speak it.
Yes, yes.
Um,  so, after I get my RN, I actually wanna get my master's.
My goal was always to become a nurse practitioner, um, and specialize in obstetrics.
Now I've been coming across this question c- um,  especially since we're older now,  I feel like,  ah, you're too old to be on campus again, you're a old hag, you can't be on campus cause you're so old.
Um, but then I think about it.
And, um, you know RD-NAME-2 you know who RD-NAME-2 is, yeah.
And so, w- RD-NAME-2 went to Nazareth, and I kind of hung out there a lot, you know.
That was my college experience basically at Nazareth,  through her.
Um,  and I just remember meeting so many people.
I don't know if you know RD-NAME-4?
You probably do know her, yeah she's- um, she's really, um, active in the community with different things.
Um,  I'm pretty sure, cause she- I don't think she knows RD-NAME-2 I'm pretty sure you- you probably know exactly who she is, but she was older.
Uh- while we were in school and I remember meeting her  and thinking, wow like, if she could do it, you know, why can't I?
You know, it's a school, do what you wanna do.
So, lately I've been going back and forth with, um,  do I wanna stay in state  for my master's, or would I like to  experience life  outside of Rochester?
I don't know financially where I'll be,  um, and then I've recently just gotten into a relationship.
So,  all of that kind of plays a factor.
Um,  now that I'm older, you know, I'm not getting any younger.
I like this- I do.
I have plenty of time and I'm not rushing anything, but, you know, we'll see.
I don't know where my heart is gonna be.
I- I'm one of 'em people that follow my heart, which is the- not always a good thing.
But I follow my heart, and it- it hasn't led me too  far from where I need to be, but  we'll see.
We'll- we'll see.
I'm not sure.
That's- that's a open ended question.
I don't know, so we'll see.
I've entertained it.
I definitely wanted to do, um, traveling nursing for sure,  um, once I get my RN though.
I wanna  experience the world.
I love to travel, so  that's what,  um, has been my kind of  goal for the next maybe three, four years, so.
Yes, too much,  T- too much.
That would be the reason why I haven't  gone back to school in the last-  we'll add it up, seven years.
Um,  I've been to Jamaica twice.
Um, in  high school I had the chance to go to China, which really kind of like-  that's where my travel bug  came from.
Um,  I've been to Canada a bunch of times.
Um,  I been to DR,  Dominican Republic, I should say.
Um, where else have I been?
And, you know, traveling in the states.
I've been to different states, mm.
Sh- you want me to name 'em all, or?
Yeah, I'm like, I'm like, I've been to a ton of- I've never been out west.
That's probably the only place I haven't been.
Like, southwest and out west, but,  um,  I do love to travel, whether it's for pleasure or like historic r- you know, sites, visiting different things.
I love-  I'm very nostalgic, so love to travel.
No, and that's the problem.
That's why I haven't, um,  really  kind of made the decision to move.
Um, Charlotte was the only place that I came this close to feeling like that.
I don't know if I didn't have enough time to experience it maybe,  but, um, Charlotte was cool.
I really did enjoy Charlotte, so.
That's probably the only place.
Um,  I love Miami, but I don't think I could actually see myself living there.
It's too-  I don't think I could ever live in like a metropolitan area, too- too crazy.
I think it's too too crazy,  so.
But Charlotte was cool.
It was cool, yeah.
Mm-hm.
So I'm gonna be doing the LPN to RN program, which is only ten mo- eighteen months,  save the exception of some classes I don't have to take, so it might be a little shorter for me.
But because recently, as in literally this semester, my sciences expire.
So now I have to retake those.
It'll probably be a year in total once I finish out my pre-reqs.
But I'm'a try to see, cause technically  my  second half of my sciences won't e- expire until next fall.
So I'm gonna try if they'll let me slide through and apply to the program,  to get in for  next fall without it  expiring,  maybe.
We'll see.
If that's the case, it'll only take a year.
I'll be done  by next year,  next-  that's two thousand  nineteen,  spring of two thousand nineteen, yeah, so.
Yeah  Hello.
It's so bad that the food was the first thing that came to my mind.
Um, the food, seriously,  cause when you go somewhere else, there's- I don't-  unless it's like New York.
Honestly, New York is probably the only place I could think of that satisfies my food cravings like here.
There's just so many different  things to enjoy here, whether it's like Caribbean food, or,  um,    garbage plates I love.
You know garbage plates are like staples here.
Um,  I don't know.
I just- even- you- you can actually get good seafood here too, which is t- depending on where you are, it's hard to get good seafood, so.
There's just-  food is- I don't know.
I love food, and food is good here.
Um, other than that,   I'm kind of, drawing short  of ideas.
There's-  um,  I mean, we do have unique things here that, you know-  Obviously Rochester is a very historic place.
A lot of people don't realize how many  treasures are in our back yard.
Um, and I'm the history buff so uh, like this-  you know, things like the Susan B.
Anthony house excite me.
I- I'm excited to go see things like that.
Um,   I don't think I'm going to that graveyard, the, um, Mount Hope Cemetery.
I'm- I don't think I'm'a do that, but just to know that we have, um, those things here.
And even working in healthcare,  um, learning about the nursing history and how,  um, it's evolved here,  and  how the hospitals were started, you know,   eighteen fifty-seven I wanna go back as far as.
I can't  remember exactly, but, you know, to know that it's evolved from way back when, and  some things are still in place from that long ago,  it's kind of impressive.
Other than the history and the food,  it's nothing to do.
Like I'm bored here, and  I don't really like being here, and so I'm always kind of  on the go, traveling,  so.
School is good.
That's why I'm here too.
I- I-  I can't say that either, but who likes to be in school, you know.
School isn't fun, so.
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I think, um,  now with-  Let me say this, I do think  Rochester is a very open minded place,  um, in some places.
I- I don't  think I walk outside my door, and the first thing on my mind is let me be conscious of where I go because I'm worried about my safety.
However there are places that I do go, and I'm like,  well, make sure you say this proper, make sure you don't, you know, be too loud  cause people are gonna  judge you.
Um, but  I don't think I'm worried,  you know,  about  police necessarily pulling me over and killing me.
That's not the first thing on my mind  living here.
So there- I'm safe.
I'm comfortable here.
I'm not, you know-  Whereas I had a experience in-  Um, my brother lives in Maryland.
He moved to Maryland,  and we went down to Ocean City for a weekend.
Um, now,  you know, Maryland was a huge slave state, huge slave state.
Frederick Douglass was born there.
I think Harriet Tubman was  born- I could be wrong, but I know for sure Har- um, Frederick Douglass was born there.
And, so anyway, we went to Ocean City.
We were dancing  at this club, um,  the name of it-  Fager Island, it's called Fager Island.
Mostly white people, you know, obviously we stand out.
It's a group, we went for his  wedding.
They were-  um, he got married to a girl that lives there and we went kind of for  their, um, engagement party.
You know, we went out after.
And, um, we were the only black people with an exception of maybe like, a cluster of three other people.
And when I say cluster, I mean two people like, a group of two people, two and three people.
So we stood out, you know.
It was a group of eight of us maybe.
And we were dancing with the guys, and after a while the guys were like trying so hard to-  to show us like, oh, we know black people, we love reggae, we're down.
And then, at one point one of them says,  oh we love beautiful ebony women, and I was like,  w- what?
First of all, who even says ebony?
Like why you just couldn't say black, if you were gonna-  you had to notate to fact that we're- obviously I'm black.
I'm not  orange or gray.
But- but that- the fact that that was like-  that stood out before anything,  it just bothered me.
So they were explaining to me like, yeah it's pretty racist down here.
You gotta be careful where you are, where you go because,  you know,  it's techsni- it's technically below the Mason-Dixon Line, and  life hasn't changed a bit much there for people, so, you know.
The metropolitan areas   I guess, but when you think about it, these are people that were born and raised there, and their family having the same values, traditions, and beliefs, and  they just move into the city with the same mindset, so.
I don't think I would feel as safe in a place like that where I'm  here,  um.
No.
No, I don't think, you know, I'm- I'm not worry about a confederate  flag flying, you know, across my face or  driving behind somebody and they spit on my car because I'm black, you know.
But the- and my brother has told me about things that have happened just because he's  black, so.
I don't worry about that  here, so.
I'm thankful for that, I should say.
It's good, yeah.
I do.
Um,  I feel it's more  an economic thing though.
It- it's-  it's, um,  very evident, the areas that are,  you know, poverty-stricken, and-  However, it tends to be more minorities in those areas, so  you can then subdivide it into  minorities are poor in Rochester.
Um,  which is frustrating because I think it boils down to resources when you  have this conversation about Rochester.
I don't feel like  we couldn't all be on the same page, but again going back to high school resources, you know.
How come the city schools aren't targeted or marketed by colleges?
How come they don't have programs where,  you know, start up in ninth grade so that you can be prepared, or even a- a buddy buddy program or a sister, you know.
Something that I could think of, and then you go to, or I have friends that went to suburb schools, and they're like, oh yeah, we all had tablets.
What?
How did you-  how did you afford that?
We barely had books that didn't break apart, you know.
Um,    and obviously,  I think racism up here is just a bit more polite,  so  the polite way of doing it is breaking it down economically.
So, you know, you're black, you're gonna live in a poor neighborhood.
We don't have to fund you.
This No Child Left Behind thing, you know,  we don't have to fund you cause you didn't do great.
Now we're gonna close your school because you suck,  and just pump that money somewhere else, whereas  you should've pumped more money into that school, given them more resources and helped the kids, and it might've  turned into something totally different, so.
Uh, that does frustrate me a lot,  and  I think we're in a cycle now where people are so used to-  um,  it's the norm.
People are just used to black people being  dumb, or black people not making it through school, or black people- I shouldn't even say black people.
I should say minorities.
Um,  getting out of school and working, or  having kids and  being in the system, you know.
Which  again, statistically, we aren't  obviously the only people using the system.
It's just kind of  we're  the face of  the system, so.
It's unfortunate.
I'm kind of scared for the generation under us cause it seems like that's just what they know.
So they used to it, that's what they know.
And it's becoming the norm for them, so.
Mm.
I- well,  the-  the economy has to change, again with the,  you know,  Kodak was a huge loss.
Um,  Xerox is pretty much, kind of the only big name still here.
Um,  didn't  Bausch and Lomb hi- like they went through-  a huge thing too, so  I think we need more resources,  opportunities  that aren't just  working class opportunities.
Um,  it would help  stimulate the economy, and it would help, you know-  Obviously they're gonna think, okay, we need people.
We can't just rely on everybody that's here.
We need to  extend our resources to the future because they're gonna become the present.
Um,  I don't know what would help.
I'm not a  analyst or anything.
I don't know, but I just know that you have to invest into the future  in order to h- make the present what you want it to be.
And I definitely think our school systems need a overhaul.
It's- it's really sad.
Now,  I have a friend who has a daughter who goes to Brighton.
You know, she's getting everything she needs, and she went out of her way to put her into Brighton, just for that reason.
You know, she's in accelerated math, and she's  in all these advanced classes.
I have no doubt that when she graduates, she's gonna be where she needs to be.
Why can't that be the same in every school no matter what district?
It's- I think that  plays a huge part.
Um,  and experiences.
I don't think a lot of kids here even know-  like, I was talking about college, what to look forward to.
I don't think a lot of kids even realize that the corner is  just like  a small dot on the map.
Like, there's so much more  to life than Rochester.
I think we're just stuck.
Not- I shouldn't say we, but, you know what I mean, when I say we, I think a lot of people are just stuck in their circumstances here because they don't know that there's more out there  that what they're in, so.
I don't know what it would take, but  that's a start.
It's very diverse,  but depending on where you're from, your experience with  diversity varies.
Um,  even in nursing school, like I experienced so much  flack, you know.
Thank god my name is RD-NAME-3, because  that has gotten me through so many doors on paper.
And then I get there and have to prove myself extra hard, you know.
I'd have the same ideas and the same- I'd say, hey guys,  we should do this.
Oh no, because that's not right.
And don't you know on every project, the teacher would comment,  you should've done this.
I don't know if it was because I'm black or what, but when you're the only black girl in the group and everybody ignores your comment, input,  and thoughts and ideas, you can't help but wonder, you know, did you th- think that I was ignorant cause I went to a city school?
Or what was it, you know?
Um,   a lot of girls that I went to nursing school with,  most-  most of all,  yeah, all of them-  none of them went to a city school.
So, you know, I'm only- I'm one of the few people, with the exception of maybe the older women who were like in their fifties,  which obviously they lived in a totally different time frame, so  if you- you can't even really-  Cause race in that time obviously was a huge-  there was a huge difference.
Um,  so resources probably were a l- I don't know.
I didn't live then, so I can't really speak on that but obviously, you know, white people weren't,  um,  left behind.
In the fifties, you were the-  the forethought.
Um, but with the exception of them,  the girls that were my age or maybe a few years older, you know,   they were very naive to things  as far as life wa- went in the city or  what  their idea of city schools were.
And  like,  I-   even work.
I worked with a girl who went  one time,  oh my god, I don't think I could live in the city.
Everyday there's a shooting, and  I just couldn't handle it,  you know.
I was  like what?
What is she talking about?
I'm like, I've never  personally witnessed anybody get shot.
I've never-  I've heard gunshots, but, I mean  if you live in the country, you can hear gunshots too.
People go hunting all the time.
What's the difference, right?
So I turned to her, and I said, okay well,  I've never actually walked out of my house and gotten shot before, so I don't really see what the difference is, you know.
Mind you, we just had a huge story  at that time  about how people were breaking and entering into city- uh, suburb houses, stealing things during Christmas.
Like just walking into people's houses, stealing things while they were sleep, so  what's the difference, you know?
What's the difference?
I don't really think there is a big one, other than  the experience  and   fear will make people make up stories and  tend to stay away.
So I don't know.
I don't think, um,  outside of the city, diversity is experienced  the way it is inside of the city.
It's- it's a different take depending on where you come from I guess,  so.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
This is true.
And you can almost kind of see, you know, somebody scooting over, looking at you twice when you go into the store.
Not- and I'm not saying this happen a-  this happens all the time, but  you get  people who, you know, kind of look at you- especially my hair.
I change my hair up all the time.
So depending on how I look when I go somewhere, I get treated different,  even at work.
It pisses me off when people think they can stick their hands in my hair.
Like,  okay,  even if my hair did grow eighteen inches overnight,  that doesn't give you the right  stick your hand in my- your hand in my hair and try to feel it, you know.
I wouldn't coming to work if like, oh my god, it's curly today, and  you know.
So again, diversity, experiencing things and just-  but again  a lot of that is upbringing and how you were raised.
What your family instills in you is usually what you kind of  branch off of.
So, a lot of it is kind of old school ideology and people not really realizing that  what their grandparents  learned or taught them isn't necessarily the truth about  minorities  or diversity in general, so.
Yeah.
Which, not to say that it doesn't happen,  but again, you can't assume that just because you live in the city.
Let's think about  Park Ave, you know,  nobody's gonna say, oh, Park Ave, it's dangerous.
But it's smack dab in the middle of the city, you know.
So, it just depends, I don't know.
I think any city you live in, it's-  it's dangerous.
New York City is horrible, but people don't go, oh my god,  New York City, you know.
People run there to live there, and  I guess you'd watch out.
I don't know.
New York City is sketchy to me no matter where you are, whether you're in Manhattan or like in the B- in Brooklyn.
Sometimes I feel safer in Brooklyn than in Manhattan, so.
I really think it's just upbringing, how people view each other.
Mm-hm.
It depends on where I am.
So when I'll go  like in Canada, sometimes people say, oh you sound country.
Or other places, like I've been to Jersey.
When I go to the city, people say, oh you sound country, or oh you sound like-  you don't sound like- even in Buffalo people actually say, you know, you don't  sound like you're from  New York.
But when I go down south, people are like, oh my god, you- I can tell you're from New York.
I'm like how?
Cause you said son.
You know, so certain words that you say, you don't even realize, um,  that you say these things,  like pop.
Um, I went to New York City and asked for pop, and the lady was like,  excuse me?
And I said, pop.
Y'all don't have pop?
Like I  just need a fizz.
I need something-  you know, I don't want water, I want some pop.
She was like, what is pop?
You know, to drink, like a coke.
Oh, you mean soda.
Oh, I didn't know you said soda.
Like, I didn't know that some people said soda, some people said pop.
I just always called it pop.
Things like that, um,   but other than that,  it just depends on where I am.
Sometimes I get I sound country,  and then if I'm east, like if I'm e- on the East Coast,  not quite  south, but East Coast-ish,  people say I sound country.
And if I go up north or down south, people say I sound like-  No, up north sometimes in Canada they say I sound country.
And then sometimes they say, we can tell you're from New York.
So it just depends, I guess.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Y'all or hey y'all, you know, but that's because my family is from down south.
So my family,  when we talk to each other  like, talking about,  or, you know, certain things that we say to each other.
It probably won't come out here cause I'm tryna be proper so you can understand me, but  when we talk to each other, you can hear it,  and so if I'm somewhere and I'm comfortable,  it comes out.
But  when I'm conscious of it, I probably sound more like  a New Yorker than anything.
Alabama,  Florida, m- f- Florida and Alabama  mostly, yeah.
So, country.
A l- a lot, I'm sure, you know, um, a lot cause sometimes I'm talking to people and they're like, what did you say?
And I'm like, oh you- I gotta say it the right way cause they don't know what I'm talking about.
You know what I'm talking about, um, they don't know what I'm talking about.
So,  it depends, um,  but I think it-  here I feel like a lot of people are from down south.
A lot of people have come up  to Rochester in particular because of job opportunities and different things at the time, so  most of everybody I know has roots somewhere else.
They aren't actually born here.
I can't trace anybody back that I know of that was just- has always been here,  which  makes sense in history.
Unless somebody's family was an indentured servant, I don't really know anybody that was  born and just  bred here.
Yeah.
If that makes sense.
Mm-hm.
Of course they do.
They sound like each other.
They sound like,  um,     very polished and proper.
Um, and I don't know-  with the exception of- I can always tell when somebody either has-  they're foreigners or their family members are f-  of a foreign, you know, background.
Because obviously, a second language, you didn't learn it first.
But most people that I've encountered,   men and women,  they kind of-  I don't know.
It's like there's no twang.
I don't know if it's a minority thing or what is it,  but it's like almost like, I hate to say white people.
And I'm not even saying white people.
I'm really saying like  English.
I don't know, you c- can't really generalize it either.
I- I- minorities, I don't know.
Anybody that speaks a second language other than English.
They have a twang with everything,  so,  people that only know English and speak English, and especially live in the suburbs, they just kind of sound like very polished, proper, and  punctuated.
If that makes sense   And they don't get a lot of my references like   jokes or,  um, I can't think of anything right now, but.
Things I would say, they'd be like who-  if I were to say, who shot John?
You know, you know what I'm talking about.
If I said that, they're like, sh- John got shot?
Who shot John?
Like what happened?
You know, references,  which are obviously cultural references, but  it's boring.
I don't know.
I don't know, I could- I don't have another way to describe, it's like there's almost no subculture within their culture, you know, which is  kind of-  Mm I just hit a point.
Maybe that's why it's hard for some people to understand diversity, cause they have no  diversity even within- amongst themselves.
There's no like,  s-  separation.
They're all the same.
Yeah.
There you go.
Yeah, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Black people,  and it pisses me off cause I'm like, what do you mean?
Am I supposed to sound smart talking stupid?
Like,  if I'm at home and comfortable, okay, it's one thing for me to break everything down, but if I'm tryna convey an idea or get you to understand my point,  if I don't communicate clearly, how will you know what the hell I'm talking about?
You know what I mean,  and I don't get-  I don't-  I do know where it came from.
I know the history of our people, and I know it came from  us constantly being told we need to dumb ourselves down to get by.
Unfortunately, so many people have missed that, and   I actually was just talking to a patient about this today.
Because my parents and my grandparents are like, direct-  you know, was  m- in the heat  of the fire, you know, Civil Rights Movement,  took trips down south and had to pack lunches for two days cause they couldn't pull over to eat, or  even having to stop on the side of the road and pee because, bring toilet paper, we can't stop anywhere.
You know, having those stories like, fresh in my mind from people that I know and see every day,  it- I grew up with a different perspective I guess.
So my grandma always inputted into me, you know, knowledge is power, read,  grow, you know, don't be ignorant, and ignorant doesn't mean  not  talking proper.
Ignorant means, you know, you don't strive for more, you don't wanna learn anything, you s- you're content being where you are,   which a lot of people-  Vocab and just being able to communicate  overall,  it's- it's like a breakdown, I don't know.
I- it's sad.
I don't- I don't know-  I can't like, mark a specific group, but I just feel like maybe  the ninety-ish babies  kind of have lost their  sense of pride, you know, in education and  learning how to speak.
Even dressing, um,  you know, back in the day,  you only had two pair of pants,  those two pair of pants better be polished and clean every day, even if those were the only two pair of pants you had.
Nowadays it's like,  nobody cares, people walk around with bonnets on their head, and  there's no sense of pride in anything.
They're just so used to being, you know,  one way.
So, even with the language now.
But it frustrates me again cause I try to make the point of,  well, who said talking proper equates to being a white girl?
Like,  but again, that idea of  back in the day, most people didn't have educations past the tenth grade  if you were black.
If you were white obviously you were going on and graduating, going to college, so you did have a bit more of- of a built up vocab, and you did have proper,  I guess,  English.
Made a difference, but that don't mean  you can't, you know,  be smart  and  not talk proper cause  trust me I'm-    I- I, uh,  I, uh, have to concentrate to talk sometimes.
Not-  Yeah, yeah.
Mm-hm Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
And sometimes simple is best.
Sometimes if you say it dumbed down,  more people will understand you, you know what I mean.
It doesn't necessarily have to be a slew of words  for somebody to get that you're smart.
I just feel like if you can connect with somebody and communicate,  no matter how you say it, as long as it's effective communication.
Effective communication doesn't mean use a huge  vocab,  you know, in a sentence.
It just needs to be  point clear, and  everybody understands, so.
That mighta been because I took  IPC classes,  interpersonal communication classes, so that helped too.
Yeah.
No, not that I can think of.
I think I talked your ear off enough.
Yeah.
Good.
Yeah.
I hope I didn't sound crazy.
No.
Good, good.