You need to go.
Monday- every Monday, open mic.
They have like good wings.
It- a lot of comedy, poets, singing.
Dope.
Aw.
Yeah, sick.
Mm-hm.
My boy RD-NAME-2, his family own it.
It's black owned and stuff.
So, you know, we come and support.
At first we started off, it was like eight people in there.
But  this Monday, it was like forty-five people in there.
Nah.
I thought you lived o- off of RD-STREET-3.
Oh wow.
That's crazy.
Yo, you been missing some dope stuff , every Monday.
Yeah.
Nah.
Go in there every Monday.
Yeah, that's the spot.
Yeah, they got dope poets, female comedians.
It's mad dope.
Mm-hm.
And it's free.
Yeah.
Yes.
Okay.
Um, I grew up on RD-ADRESS-6.
It used to be called RD-STREET-2 Avenue,  a- on RD-ADDRESS-2 Court.
I was actually born there.
I was born on RD-ADDRESS-2 Court.
And I lived there all the way up to like-  like fifteen years old, sixteen years old.
Um,  it had its ups and downs.
It was a up because like, most people in those projects  been living there for a real long time.
And like, I was the project baby, so I was like the little baby that ran around with his diaper on that everybody, like, try to play with and take care of.
So like we all- i- it was like one big family, you know.
But then at the same time,  you had those street dudes  that lived in the projects too.
And  when they used to go at it,  you know what I mean, stuff got dangerous at the same time, you know.
But as a child,  you don't really know what danger is, you know.
So,  it take me to be older to be like,  okay,  like  our project was really dangerous,  but  to us kids, it was awesome, like  Big Wheels  had my little electric, like, monster truck.
It was awesome.
Yeah.
Well one friend that I still have,  his name RD-NAME-2.
Me and him been friends  ever since babies, cause our moms were friends.
Um,  he was like the chubby fat k- fat dude.
Then he started playing football and slimmed up.
It was a dude named RD-NAME-2.
He was a older dude.
Like probably like four years older than us.
And we all like looked up to him cause he was like the- like the East  High School football player.
And like,  he used to train us out in the field, and we used to like, play like-  like t- like shoot 'em up, bust 'em up, like basically like football- freehand football.
Yeah.
I had some pretty cool friends on RD-ADDRESS-1 Court.
It was cool.
Um, we woke up every day  and we went outside.
You know, probably just normal stuff cause like we had like a square in the projects.
So we'd just like ride our bicycle in that like circle a lot.
And then  we probably like, all start coming together.
Play shoot 'em up bust 'em up is basically like  no one's on  no one's team.
It's kind of like  twenty-one  in basketball.
Everyone against everyone.
And you just get a football, you just keep doing touchdowns.
And then w- we probably split up into teams, play a round of that.
And then like we would either play like hide-and-go-seek, or like man hunt or something like that.
A- yeah.
And we used to play that from like  pr- like the projects all the way like to Corn Hill.
So it was dope.
O- or we used to go to Three School  play basketball,  dodgeball  at Three School.
That's like a normal day.
That's when life was good.
Um, RD-NAME-2 seen me all the time.
Yeah.
No I didn't know that.
That's crazy.
Um, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3, RD-SCHOOL-2  and the RD-SCHOOL-3.
RD-SCHOOL-3 was like-  you ever seen the movie High School High?
What?
It's a nineties movie.
It's so dope.
A- but it's like, you know, shoot, at RD-SCHOOL-3 I had to be around like-  had to be like fourteen years old,  thirteen,  fourteen years old.
It was- man, school was crazy.
Like, there was a lot of gangs in school.
Like, you could walk  up the stairways, kids behind th-  the stairs  gambling, or like rolling dice and playing tunk.
The cafeteria, like,  the reason why they f-  they- they changed the foam plates  is because, like,  they used to have food fights in the cafeteria and be throwing like them heavy plastic trays and stuff.
Like,  that was crazy.
But i- it was cool too because like,  we used to have like, basketball tournaments,  and they had this one that was like a bask- I mean a boxing league.
So i- i- it kept the kids active, you know.
But  this-  k-  the kids was so bad there  that a probation officer  had her own office inside the middle school.
And like, back then it was nothing.
But w- now you get older, like, yo it's a probation officer  assigned to the school?
That's crazy.
So like,  teachers w- like they come in there fighting, um,  parents coming in fighting teachers,  students fighting teachers, like literally, fist combat.
It just like, yo like,  50 Cent album drop that year, Get Rich or Die Tryin'.
That-  everyone had the little walkmans.
Everyone had Ge- Get Rich or Die Tryin'.
And then the Nextels came.
Everyone had a Nextel.
And like it was crazy.
I thought I was old back in the day, man.
I wasn't old.
But school was pretty-  RD-SCHOOL-3 was alright.
W- but then,  I guess like statistic-wise  the state took over RD-SCHOOL-3.
That's what turned it into RD-SCHOOL-5.
And then, I went over to the RD-SCHOOL-2 down the street.
The RD-SCHOOL-2 down the street  was- it was a little bit more intense.
Like people wasn't playing around like that.
You know what I mean.
And then, Yeah.
An- and it wasn't b- Yeah it was more strict.
Like, RD-SCHOOL-3 man, you could just walk out of class and just go like chill in the bathroom and like roll dice like your friend hit you on your Nextel.
Like you- you- you leave class, like aight, I'll c-  I'm thirteen years old,   fourteen so it was just like,  RD-SCHOOL-2 wasn't with none of that, like, oh, referral.
Oh, referral.
Oh,  two day.
Like, alright, lemme stop playing around.
I'm'a start doing my work.
My mom was whooping my butt.
I'm like alright, we-  take class more serious.
RD-SCHOOL-2 was alright though.
It had way more of a college feel.
Cause like a lot of kids there,  uh,  were in like advanced classes.
So like, a lot of people wasn't playing around.
Like if you tried to be like that class clown or play around, people looking at you like, bro like, I'm here to work for real, you know.
And then RD-SCHOOL-4, you know how that was.
RD-SCHOOL-2 was just, you know.
Shell shock.
Culture shock.
Cause it was just like, I came from like this crazy like,  ghetto, like, free school.
Then I went to like this strict  school.
Then I went to like, another like, diverse, free school, you understand?
So it was just like,  ok, shell shock, like,  you know what I mean, like,  I've seen a gay person here and there,  but,  when I went and seen people like,  proudly out being gay, you know what I mean,  that was something I had to get used to.
Um,  You seeing a white kid with like a red mohawk, or a black kid, he  got on like some crazy clothes.
Like, even the teacher got a mohawk.
This teacher don't wear suits to work like, you know what I mean.
Then like, it's so much art.
It was just so much culture  in like one building, that-  RD-SCHOOL-2 was definitely yeah.
I wish I'd have went there like the whole time.
Cause it's crazy cause  I came from RD-ADDRESS-3  And mostly every kid that comes from RD-ADDRESS-3 goes to RD-SCHOOL-4  But,  that year they changed it, where you had to go  closer to like your local  area or something they did that year.
So I had to go to RD-SCHOOL-3 instead.
So I came from RD-ADDRESS-5, this great elementary school sixth grade,  to going to RD-SCHOOL-3.
It was like super crazy like,  it- man, you don't underst- I can't even-  Going t- it's so crazy, like,   could you imagine being the teacher and you walk out  to like your car, and a-  and like a little thirteen year old kid walking out hopping in his car too?
Like, it was crazy, like.
Yeah, RD-SCHOOL-3 was crazy.
If I could do th- do that again,  I would rather  been at RD-SCHOOL-2 mo-  longer, cause I- I think I woulda grew into a different, like-  It woulda groomed me more, you know what I mean.
I woulda had more time to- to get groomed, cause in school, like college-  in college, you know, it was like  I didn't feel like I was lacking, cause I was ahead a lot of people in the art district in school, but  I feel like,  It woulda groomed me more, you know what I mean.
Like,  being groomed at a younger age,  m- most things woulda been muscle memory,  you know what I mean.
So yeah.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-3  Community College  for culinary.
I was there for like,  what, year and a half.
Finished up there,  moved back here, started working at restaurants.
Got into the hospital and was like  I'm done with the restaurant  world.
You know,  I'm tryna preserve myself.
Restaurants, man, it's serious business.
Stressful.
I'd rather be stressed at one job  where everybody else is stressed out,  than be stressed out at a job where no one else cares.
You know what I mean, so.
Um, mines was  theater.
Drama major.
Mm-hm.
Creative writing?
Okay.
Cause that's what everyone thinks.
Everyone like, you creative writing?
I'm like, no.
Mm.
Yeah Miss RD-NAME-2.
Mm-hm.
That's my core teacher.
Yeah drama, baby.
And I- It groomed me.
Like,  it- so it was c- it was cool because  I was going to RD-SCHOOL-4, but,  the reason why RD-SCHOOL-4  called me  is because I was at RD-SCHOOL-5.
So I was doing RD-SCHOOL-5 summer academies a- and doing plays with RD-SCHOOL-5 before I even went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And then-  and it's cool that they actually called me  and were just like, yo you tryna come here?
I'm like, yeah.
So I- I came  and Miss RD-NAME-2 made me read like a passage out of a book.
And she like, alright, you're in.
I'm just like,  that was way too easy,  not knowing that she already had friends that came to my shows and seen me before, you know.
So I'm like, oh that's awesome, you know, so.
Theater helped me out with-  Um, cause I- I shoot music videos.
I shoot mini films.
It was really-  it was really good to have the basics  down, the foundation  of,  um, performance art,  you know what I mean.
Cause like,  yeah movies-  film is killing the theater world.
But you always gotta go back to the foundation.
Film is just  recorded theater,  you know what I mean.
So it groomed me f- to like know the foundation.
Most of the people out here that shoot music videos  or work on film,  they all come from a film world.
They never really got the foundation of theater, you know.
Th- those kids don't take that theater class  or that theater lit class.
They rather take the CGI class, you know what I mean, the- the- the production class.
So it was cool that I took those classes,  because  the way I got into RD-SCHOOL-5,  um, it's crazy but I did a poem.
Now, this is how, like  illiterate I was to theater.
So I'm like, yo, I wanna audition for this,  but I don't know what theater is.
So RD-NAME-1's like yo, do a monologue.
So I try to google like w- what a monologue was.
So I'm like, oh I could just do a poem.
I went in there,  and them mo-  and those people let me do a poem.
And not-  and never stop me and say like, yo you gotta do a monologue, like you can't do a poem.
And-  and it's so crazy now, that I thought about it after I understood what a monologue was.
I left,  and they called me and was like, I'm in.
And it's crazy cause I told my mama that same day, I'm like yo, I don't wanna do this.
It was just like a lot of like,  people I'm not used to there, you know what I mean.
Crazy, cause RD-NAME-2 was there too.
And RD-NAME-3 was there too.
And-  no yeah, RD-NAME-4 was there,  and just RD-NAME-2.
That's how I met them, be- before I even went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
So I'm sitting there like,  aw man, like I don't like these kind of- I don't like these people man, I'm-  I'm- you know what, I hope they don't even call me.
And then they called me like,  two hours later like, hey, you're in.
I'm like,  psh.
So they- they was like, it's eight hundred dollars to- um, to do it.
And I'm like, yes my mom is not gonna pay no eight hundred d- Yes, eight hundred.
Yes, eight hundred for RD-SCHOOL-3.
For RD-SCHOOL-6 it's eight hundred dollars.
And whether that's like a probably what, like a three month course?
Two month?
Something like that.
They charge you eight hundred.
No that- this would get crazy.
So I'm like, yes, I know my mama's not gonna pay this eight hundred dollars   for me to go do some theater.
Oh,  I get a scholarship in the mail.
I'm like, oh my god.
I'm like, yo like m- I'm like oh my god, now I gotta really do this.
I show up my first day, man.
When I say I was sweating, like-  like,  I was just sweating so bad.
I'm just like so nervous, heart thumping.
And then like,  we all was sitting in a circle, and w-  and we all done had like, to introduce ourself.
I was the only black kid in there, except for RD-NAME-2.
And like,  you know,  I didn't know who he was at that time.
So, I'm just sweating in the corner like, yo this is a lot of white people, man.
Like,  it's like  thirty- like thirty white people just me and RD-NAME-2.
W- I'm just like yo, I've never been like in this situation.
So most of these kids  were like already theater kids.
You know what I mean, some of 'em were like twelve years old, thirteen, fourteen.
They're already like,  theater lit, you know.
So I'm just like,  I'm'a just go with the flow.
And then,  I l-  this lady RD-NAME-2 pulled me to the side, like,  probably like three weeks in,  and was like, you know,  um,  you on- you-  like, you only fail if you try.
And was like,  I can see that you're like kind of tens- like have a lot of tension, like,  just free yourself.
And,  if you don't like it,  you know what I mean, you could just never come back,  or you can just give it a chance, and if it work out, you know,  I gotchu.
So I'm like alright, you know what, that makes sense.
So I just  didn't care no more.
And then by the end, I won a award  for like one of the most improved,  and best dressed, of course.
And but that's what made it so crazy, because these kids like,  they started coming up to me like, yo.
When I was like  sixteen years old, seventeen,  that's when like, True Religion just came in.
I loved True Religion.
So like- like the kids from like Pittsford, they're coming up to me like yo, those True Religion jeans are crazy.
So I'm like, yo they know about True Religion jeans.
Like it was crazy, so.
I used to wear like- like Dior pants and stuff.
But I never thought about it like, I n- I never thought anyone's watching me.
But at the end, they like,  freaking was like, yo, RD-NAME-1, you get best dressed.
I'm like yo that's crazy, like, that was dope.
Oh and RD-NAME-2 was there too.
I met RD-NAME-2 there-  RD-NAME-4 there for the first time.
So it was like,  I go- so- so when I went over to RD-SCHOOL-2,  all the-  all the drama kids already knew who I was kind of, you know.
And then, I got with House of Pain,  and started to help like build, um, sets and like theme park type of things.
Help build a- um, a clown character  that won me like the best actor of the season  for Halloween,  for RD-WORK-3 Magazine.
So it was like-  and then I just keep going with it, going with it.
Then I'm like, you know what I-  I'd rather just work for myself.
You know.
And then, I don't gotta talk about what- what we did, you know.
W-  We did our thing.
Poetry slam.
Nah.
Um,  well, I already w- was a writer  and- and  dude, Mr.
RD-NAME-1, Was that his name?
No not-  g- n-  you know, not RD-NAME-1 the army dude.
It's another older guy, older- Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
So, he used to come to some of my,  um, theater shows.
And then,  I try to-  for- for your writing class, I competed with the-  um,  the Shakespeare competition?
And- you know, and he gave- and they gave us the rules,  and I ain't gonna say nothing but the person that won  completely didn't go by the rules, cause they say you can't do Romeo and Juliet.
And this person did Romeo and Juliet.
I did Taming of a Shrew.
So I'm like,  I lost,  well, I came in second place,  but I'm like, yo like,  you- you did Romeo and Juliet, and they said you can't do Romeo and Juliet.
Everyone knows that  piece, you know.
So,  he seen like the way  I did like the- um, the Shakespeare piece.
And he was like, yo do you do poetry?
I'm like, yeah I do poetry.
And,  I recited a poem for him,  and he was like, yo you should enter in a poetry contest.
So I'm like alright.
Uh, I- I entered in a poetry contest.
And it's funny cause mad people started dropping out.
Um, my boy RD-NAME-2 like yo, I'm not doing this with you.
I'm like bro, do the  con- Like I didn't even know like-  I didn't know what slam poetry was at- was at that time.
But I know how to like, rap.
So I just do my poetry vocally out, like, aggressively, you know.
And,  I won all the competitions like straight tens.
And then I went on to did like a Webster competition.
I won that one, and met that  kid out there that came with us,  RD-NAME-1?
I think.
RD-NAME-1.
I- I met him at that competition.
And I just kept on getting in all of 'em, just- just winning all of 'em,  and then,  I met R-  I had to do the-  um, what did- the, writers and books.
And then I met RD-NAME-4 there.
Then what's the other one called, the RD-WORK-4 or something?
Then she aksed me come do that one.
And then, tha- that's when she brought me with you guys.
You know what I'm saying.
Nas and Lauryn Hill, If I Ruled the World.
I heard that song.
S-  a- no I actually seen the music video  I had a  I had to be like what,  eight years old.
I watched the music video.
I'm like, yo, this is the best song in the w-  ever, like,  the clash of her singing  and like, her soulfulness, and his like, rap lyrics.
I'm just like, yo,  this what I should be doing.
And ever since then,  I used to like, just like-  I had like a karaoke machine  that had like a recorder with a microphone.
And I literally just wrote  every single day  and just rap records on my microphone, o- over a little tape.
And they- it was funny because  then they didn't have the engineering,  so I would get two radio- I would get my one radio,  push play on my radio to play the music out loud  then I take the cassette recorder one  an- and just rap,  but I have another microphone sitting by the-  the music  just to make songs.
And I- and that was at like twelve years old,  you know.
Lauryn Hill and Nas i-  If I Ruled the World is the reason why I rap,  and  do art period.
That song was like my-   I don't know, that song did it for me.
Yeah, it was like oh my god.
Um, I don't know, man.
I'm a realist rapper.
Like,  it's realism, you know,  It could-  I think- I think my music is- I- I think the way I rap is deep.
And I think I talk about  touchy topics and  things that people are not comfortable with saying out loud.
But at the same time,  I feel like I rap with like a motivation through it.
It's not like-  like glorifying.
It's like, it is what it is.
But, you could always p-  like progress yourself.
You know what I mean, that's my style.
Cause like,  I'm all over the place.
I'm not gonna  categorize myself to one single  thing.
You know what I mean, I'm a artist, like.
It could be some club stuff, some party stuff, some love stuff, some  hate stuff, anger stuff.
You know what I mean, like I'm a human like, I- I'm'a be everything.
For a artist to be like one thing is just like,  kind of like, faking the funk, you know what I mean.
It's like  this is what sells for me so I'm'a just do this.
I do whatever I- I- I- I feel.
Like,  I could feel like this today, write this way or write that way,  and I'm'a put it out this way and I don't care who like it or not.
It's about  I'm expressing myself to the world, you know.
Oh nah, I go by the rules of the East Coast.
uh, you tryna set me up.
Yeah I'm not doing a-  I ain't doing a mumble rap.
I'm not doing a mumble rap.
I enjoy it.
But I'm not doing that.
Cause like,  I'm not about to turn into a melting pot, you know what I'm saying.
It- yes, it's segregation.
But we have to keep it segregation  for our children could understand that East Coast has a sound.
Yeah.
I'm not-  I'm not mumble rapping.
I'm not going to be repetitive.
A- and I'm'a actually  think my thoughts  out  clearly,  and just not be f- for like what I think a person might like.
I'm'a actually think about what I'm actually saying,  you know what I mean.
It's not like get- do drugs and just like I'm about to just freestyle for you, you know.
But I'm not saying I don't like that music, yes.
I like it because  I can dib and dab in different choices of hip-hop.
You know, f- for- for someone to say  none of that stuff is hip-hop makes no sense.
Cause if you know the foundation rules of hip-hop, that's all hip-hop.
It's people coming from where they're from  expressing themself through the art the way they do.
You know like,  we heel-toe, and Chicago like fast tap or whatever the like- you know how the fast dance they do.
Like you know what I mean, I'm-  I'm not gonna say like their way of dancing's not right cause we heel-toe, you know what I mean.
So it's like, the way they're doing it, okay it's cool.
That's keeping  like, us alive and,  the hundred billboard chart said that  just now that rap is the new rock and roll,  you know what I mean.
The top six albums on the billboard chart right- charts right now  are hip-hop albums.
And it's all different sounds of hip-hop, you know what I mean.
So I'm not about to sit here and discredit no one.
Like, I'm happy that  I don't gotta travel to Atlanta to actually hear a Atlanta person.
I can just push play  and hear their culture,  you know what I mean.
But, I gotta segregate myself  for when they-  when they here m-  us,  we don't sound like them.
You know what I mean, like I've been down south, and like the way I rap they all be like-  be like why aren't you known in New York?
And I tell 'em like yo n- first of all, it's not New York.
New York City is like a huge shadow over all these little cities that- We got like forty cities in New York    in that one c- New York City like you know.
And it- and it's people there that's- tha- that's super dope.
But it just,  i- it's just people waiting in line, you know.
It's so much art and so much talent,  and hustle in New York City,  that, you know,  s- somethings just don't come to radio yet.
But,  it's funny that a lot of my down sou- down south- down s-   down south friends  listen to like, nothing but New York music.
And it be so hilarious like,  I go down to Carolina, I'm turnt for the weekend,  he putting on Nas I'm like bro listen, I know you can see me in your car right now, and I know you like Nas and you tryna represent but, yo, I need your music on right now before I can have my nice night tonight, you know what I mean.
So it's cool like,  they're not just bumping down south music, they do respect our sound.
You know what I mean, so- s- so, you gotta keep that sound going because they s-  they still want us to sound the way w- we- we supposed to sound.
If not, there wouldn't be like a Joey Badass.
It wouldn't be like Action Bronson, and  Dave East,  um,  even ASAP like, you know what I mean.
Um, there's mad dudes out here that- that's making a living off of this so it- that mean people do  glorify and accept our music.
And if we go across seas, it's even more crazy.
Know what I mean, cause the- they're like ten years behind.
So like they hear New York music is crazy you know, so.
Well, m-  my all time goal is I don't wanna be a rapper I wanna be in A and R.
So I just wanna hope I can get to a label and show 'em like my music video work,  and like my engineering work,  and my writing skills, and music writing skills,  and they just give me like a office space,  or give me like a  contract  to help  develop artists.
That's what I do at my company now, you know.
M- most people I shoot videos for, they don't have no idea on what they wanna do.
So I help,  I- I hear their music  I write down all the ideas and visionaries that I can put together for 'em, I send it to 'em, if they like it, then we shoot it.
Same thing when I- when I record people.
If I record someone, I-  I can hear your weaknesses or where I think a strength is and I try to like  elaborate on that part like,  echoes, reverbs, anything, you know.
And when they hear it they be amazed and love it so.
I really wanna develop artists, you know.
Alright we gonna go with the bad first.
C- cause the good is good.
Um,  I don't know, like the youth,  like,  the youth youth like the thirteen year-old, fourteen year-olds,  like,  I don't know why but, yo they're on a savage lost path,  like.
If you be around kids nowadays, like, don't let them know like you're listening or looking.
The stuff they saying out their mouth, the way they dress, and the way they acting it just  crazy, you know what I mean.
It's like  they don't value life.
And like, I'm not saying that in like a cliche way.
They don't marinate in life.
Like they don't marinate in living.
Like when I was a kid I was a kid,  probably doing some bad grown-up things, but I was still being a kid.
These kids don't wanna be children, they wanna be grown-ups,  but they don't wanna go by the foundation of what a adult has to do,  know what I mean.
So it's like,  I feel like,  there need to be more like,  activities.
Like when  I was young,  we still had summer camp  and all that, like I go to summer camp at, um,  RD-SCHOOL-3.
And it was dope.
Like, summer camp,  um,  go to the- we used to go like- like the U of R festivals.
My sister w- went to RD-SCHOOL-2 so,  that was a big part of my childhood, being able like to go out  and be diverse and see other things, you know what I mean.
But,  these youth,  they're not busy enough.
That's why they go to the Lilac Festival, and it act like it's a party not knowing that that's like a-  a festive thing,  of where you just like, marinate in value and,  the lilacs you know.
So they show up there,  where if they had some teen event somewhere, they'd have went there instead,  you know what I mean.
Yeah.
They're backed up.
Know what I mean, like, there's nothing for them to do,  but sit in their neighborhood all day.
They go to school,  come home, sit in their neighborhood all day,  and they don't do nothing but be on the internet.
So when a event come,  they don't care what kind of event it is, if it's a event they're just coming,  you know what I mean.
Tension  arises  cause you got people there that like,  never been around kids like this, or never been in the situation before.
They got their babies, and they're tryna eat funnel cake and enjoy their day.
Then you got these kids here  that's bringing s- high school beef, middle school beef  to a festive thing, you understand, so.
That's all it is.
We need to get more f- festival things going for them,  and then,  direct them back to going to their own events  and you won't have to deal with that.
Cause th- cause the security at Lilac Festival ain't gonna be the same security at the teen event,  you know what I mean.
Teen event security gonna be a little more aggressive.
So things like that won't-  Cause you got like, Pathways of Peace,  people that-  that deal with like the gang activity  that can go out and point out different gangs and different- certain people and s- and divide the situation before it occurs.
And at Lilac Festival,  they just see all these kids.
And then to be a person that's not from the city or from these kind of environments  to like be w- pushing my baby in the stroller  and it's literally like a hundred and twenty black kids over there with hoodies on, it's just like.
Even to any  body would be like, alright this is not right like something's going on in the situation.
So now you gotta look over your shoulder  while you tryna enjoy yourself at a festival event.
When you can just  bring  kids and- and bring them around each other,  and let them  handle that,  until we could learn how to  develop something better for the situation, you know what I mean.
It's like, you- you might just turn Lilac Festival to twenty-one and up, or come with their- or come with their parent.
You know what I mean, so,  that's a bad thing.
Um,  I don't feel like Rochester's one of the poorest cities based on jobs.
I think it's based on ambition.
People are just lazy.
You know what I mean, like,  w- I think welfare used to be like a four year thing,  or you had to like get   pee test, drug test, or like,  surveys of how many applications you do a month.
You know what I mean, it was like-  like more like a probation of h-  of like help.
But I think people are just draining welfare out now like, yo, if I could be on this the rest of my like I'm'a do it, you know what I mean.
People don't got no drive, you know.
So, I- we got all the jobs, I know we do cause I work at RD-WORK-3.
We're- we're one of the biggest hiring staffs.
I watch people get hired and lose their job every day over stupid stuff.
Like.
They get their first couple  paychecks,  start showing up to work late, they don't wanna start calling in.
Like I-  I got promoted up to my position like four, five months ago.
I've never called in.
I've never missed a day.
You know what I mean, like  I don't like-  If I call in, it gotta be something really, really serious.
And people just calling in cause they went out to the club last night.
S- but the money you used at the club last night  came from that job.
You understand?
And then w- even when drive through Rochester, you just see people just standing there.
R- it's people standing all over the place.
Like,  ev- even if you go to big cities or something, you- people are not just standing on the corner just standing there, like that's some Rochester stuff where  you drive by, somebody just standing there all day every day.
They don't got no ambition, they don't got no drive.
Most people call Buffalo out of town.
You know what I mean, like, they haven't even been nowhere.
Like,  so that- that's some, like bad things that we need to work on.
The- the closet racism is huge in Rochester too.
Know what I mean, it's a lot of closet racism.
And that's what I like about,  e-  like-  like,  a person that's racist from like the South or wherever like,  I like that they're more vocally racist, and separate themselves,  cause we know where- where we stand.
But in New York, the racism is all hidden.
You know what I mean, it's closet racism, you know what I mean.
Well, you know, people still gonna look at like,  minorities as like-  Cause like, m- this come from me working in the restaurant industry.
There is always doubt  in what I'm doing.
When we had this ne- person right next to me that's completely like messing up.
And then that person mess up to a level where they have to go with me,  and then I succeed.
I shouldn't have to always go through that doubt  or always have to go- Like, you know what I mean, and this not me pulling the black card, it just  we physically seen this myself.
Know what I mean, at the hospital  I don't really go- I- I haven't been through none of that.
So I know it's more diverse professionalism  than like the r- than like the restaurant industry.
And also just based on,  like,  I have a diverse thing of friends,  and,  I've had-  I had white friends that beat up white friends for being racist, all the time.
Know what I mean, so I know   that it's huge.
But the thing about it is,  it's easier to tell a white person something racist about a black person than tell the black person  in New York,  you know what I mean.
So,  it's just like, that's weird.
You wouldn't b- you wouldn't believe that exists.
It's weird,  you know.
But good things man,  I think Rochester has like a soul to it,  a culture to it that no city has.
I been a lot of places,  and I- no one has this-  this- this energy th- th- that we have here.
And I think we have the best food  period, like in- in the country.
Well- uh, well, least everywhere I've been.
Like, you know what I mean, like you go West Coast, it be a lot of bland food.
You know what I mean, lot of Mexican food.
But like here,  the food choices is crazy.
Know what I mean, I- I think the food thing for us is huge, like  c- people don't even know what country sweet sauce and boss sauce is and,  garbage plates.
You know what I mean,   That's crazy, like,  you bring boss sauce to chicken f- um, to Chick-fil-A.
They go crazy.
Like, you go down to- like they eating Chick-fil-A it's honey mustard, you be like yo,  if I had country sweet sauce right now then it'd be amazing.
All my down south friends come up here  try country sweet boss sauce, they buy gallons of it and take it back with them,  every time.
So I think the food thing- the food thing here is  awesome.
Um,  the art world here is awesome.
You know, like,  I'm in that hip-hop, poetry, like graffiti  world, so I see it all the time.
Like, you go into the tunnels- the subway tunnels,  all the graffiti stuff is crazy.
The- um,  now, the youth do got something going on where  there's- there's like a lot of ambitious  art kids, you know what I mean, like there's-  there's kids that's pretty young that's like, pushing the art here hard  that I watch.
That's pretty cool.
The structure of houses, buildings, like th-  Rochester, like the environment kind of like  influences my art, you know what I mean.
So I like it.
I live in the RD-ADDRESS-1.
Yeah, you know.
It's pretty cool.
In Rochester?
I don't want to.
But,  it's all about my job situation.
I'm trying to-  I wanna go wherever my,  um, union is so I can keep all my benefits and everything going, you know.
Unless I switch to another hospital,  that's gonna let me switch over for my pay  and like- and let me- let my 401k and everything come to- like, you know, switch over.
Like my boy just did that to Florida but,  I'm thinking more like Seattle.
Know what I mean,  I was down there like two months ago,  and like,  yeah, Seattle I like Seattle.
Yeah.
The RD-ADDRESS-1 is like Seattle.
And the crazy thing abou- about this area is most people that's-  that- that live here or own these houses are from West Coast.
You know what I mean, and it makes sense.
So yeah, I kind of like  Seattle, o-  and if not,  I like North Carolina.
You know what I mean,  so we gonna see.
But it's eleven ninety-nine, I'm just trying to find a way like to bid out with them.
So, I'm at like three years right now.
I need like one more year for my seniority,  to start like working on bidding through jobs.
Cause I like what I do,  and,  I know my job is always going to be there.
It was cool.
It's cool.
I about to aks for a raise.
They just come randomly all the time.
It's perfect.
Paid vacation,  know what I mean.
The restaurant world, man,  they pay you a lot of money, but they don't give no benefits, no paid vacation, no nothing.
And, you could work seven days a week.
You know what I mean, they could force you to work seven days a week or fire you,  and the union can't force me, you know what I mean.
Labor rules and stuff, so.
Those are good things.
Bad things and good things about the Roc.
Man,  well- well, coming from like my white friends' point of view, cause, you know, my white homies, I love 'em.
Like they're honest, like we brothers like,  they gonna keep it real with me, like they gonna-  you know what I mean, like.
Probably like see- you know, like-  I don't know, I don't wanna say it that bad, but it's like,  some of these white people, they really think we're like,  r- we would like really like rob them and like rape them and like murder them.
You know what I mean, it's like,   I could be walking down the street, yo it could be like five white dudes walking down the street these motherfuckers big as hell.
Walk past me, they wanna split their way and apologize, oh so sorry, we're like bro, stop acting so scared bro it's like five of you guys and y'all  ten times bigger than me.
You kn- like, you know, like,  so they aks where our aggression and anger come from.
You be mad that somebody's scared of you,  you know what I mean.
So I feel like  th- that's a big perception, like,  they think th- I think they think every black person like a drug dealer or like a killer automatically like,  you know what I mean, cause oh, your skin is black.
And I got dreads.
like, that just put it on for me with the stereotype, like.
And I wear like gold teeth,  so I know- And I do that on purpose, just to like,  push the culture more and more just to be like,  you know what I mean, like we here, like that shirt is like my gold teeth, you know what I mean.
Because,  I wanna break the stereotype,  but still look like the stereotype.
I'm not ch- changing how I look.
I'm not conforming.
I'm not re-twisting my nappy hair until I feel like doing it.
Ain't nothing changing on me, you know what I mean, like this is who I am,  and you gonna  marinate in the culture when- when you see me,  or you could turn the other way.
I don't really care, you know.
Like, I'm cool w-  I like- I'll- I'm- I'm so blessed  to be black.
I'm so happy.
It make me happy every day I wake up.
But,  then you got like the Carlton Banks  that like- like- like- like the in-house.
We call 'em the in-house,  and,  and do.
Or like the  oreo.
And those are mostly the kids,  uh,  that try to conform,  kind of like try to  fit in with  white people, you know what I mean.
And white people are not dumb and somet- they- they don't get the street dude, but they do get the- the oreo dude or like the in-house nigga dude.
You know what I mean, cause they'll mention it to me like, yo,  look at this like,   like Carlton Banks dude, like okay, probably like a black kid from Pittsford or like,  Hil- h- Hamilton, Hilton, you know, like- like, you know what I mean.
And like, they click on and see that.
So like, they get the-  like the-  the- th- the oreo black kid right, but they don't get the street dude right.
And, you know what I mean, like, they know that I came from a bad neighborhood,  so anytime they see some dude they be like, yo like that dude right there is like,  I'm like bro he just a normal dude bro, like,  how the hell can you determine all this already?
Like-  like nah, man way he walk, the w-  I'm like bro, alright man.
I call myself a ghetto kid.
I'm a ghetto baby.
I ain't gonna say- I'm not gonna ever disclaim the streets.
I came from the streets.
I came from the ghetto.
That's what it is.
That's culture.
It is what it is.
Black women?
I don't know like- I don't really think so.
I think- I think that black women r- I think they really running shit in Rochester.
I-  I don't really hear too much shit people got to say about black women.
Like m- all my white homeboys love black women.
You know what I mean, even the racist ones, they love black women, like, black women run this shit, like.
Ain't too much to say about the black women, you know what I mean.
I feel- I think every- I think everybody in Rochester tries to go for 'em.
It- it's the same way how everyone g-  goes for the white girl.
I think  even white men are going for the black ladies in Rochester.
They- they- they just be scared to holler.
But they be wanting to holler.
They just be scared to holler.
I don't wanna say.
They always try to compare her to somebody like, oh my god bro,  she look like,  um, w- what's that girl name that  um, Dwyane Wade's dating?
Yeah.
My boy think every black girl like Gabrielle Union.
Oh my god, it's so funny yo, it's so funny.
Yo like,  we be in group message,  and they just show mad pictures of black women, my white boys be like, oh my god,  look at her, I'm like yo bro, you guys is  ridiculous.
And then my bro, um, RD-NAME-3, he's Asian.
He dates nothing but black women.
Know what I mean, he has two black children.
It- he just- I think he tryna infiltrate the race,  and just keep getting black women pregnant like every three years.
He will only date black women.
So I think in Rochester for black women, it's a little different.
And m- And m- Cause most black women are like independent.
Well no it's a stereotype of like feminism.
Like,  I feel like a lot of black women in Rochester are feminists.
And that come from being independent for so long.
you know what I mean, f- for- for like the female race to be-  Well, the females  to be like,  independent for so long without like that male figure in your life,  that when like the daughter grows up,  she carries the traits of being like a independent woman herself.
So it's hard to like-  a man to kind of like  conform that person that's been independent and strongly on their own, you know what I mean, like.
To be a strong independent woman, and to get married or to be i- in a relationship  you kind of gotta kind of like, conform and like  tone yourself down for both of you guys to fit,  you know what I mean.
So I think that's a huge thing, where people like, you know what.
That's what make a lot of people just go to white girls, cause they like, yo I'm not tryna keep  arguing with you, but it's like  she pay her bill, she got her job, she bust her ass, she got her education and you do too.
So now,  women in-  in our generation, I feel like,  they gonna argue back, you know what I mean.
And it's- I'm not saying n- not stand your ground  but women just like yo, we don't need y'all.
You know what I mean, s-  so, when you already got that attitude, dude approach you, it's just already like oh, she snobby,  you know what I mean.
So yeah.
Mm-hm.
Well, you know, New York City people say we sound like we got a down south accent,  and everyone else say we got a New York  accent,  you know what I mean.
But I talk weird because like,  I lived so many different places.
And then like growing up, like Patois and all that  like- like my family.
Like, my language is all messed up, so people here don't be knowing what I be saying, how I be talking.
I know it.
I know it's bad.
But it's cool, it's culture.
It's the way I sound.
I love it.
Nah but,  I go down south, somewhere somebody'll be like, yo you from New York.
But you go to New York City, people try and like be like yo, you s- from the south you got a Southern accent.
I think cause we say Southern words too.
But I don't think it was really like meant to be said, but we just joke around, be like yo bruh, like stuff like that, you know what I mean.
So when I go to New York I'm like yo bruh, they like,  you down south, like, bro,  no I just- the word  just flew out my mouth, like  it's still culture, like, you know?
People be separating the culture too much like, it's all one melting pot of culture, like.
Yeah, son, like come on, like the way we say come on.
I think the way we pronounce our A's.
Like the c- like, you know,  they be like car, park.
Know what I mean, we don't pronounce our-  pronounce certain words.
We kind of like connect words and then like fly through 'em.
Stuff like nah mean,  feel me.
I know I say like nah mean like a hundred times,  don't even know I say it, until a white person tells me like yo,  you say this word a lot.
Then I start thinking about it like, oh god I do.
But,  yeah,  I think  New York got its sound that we just can't- Word,  word.
But down south,  but-  music influences the culture so  we do say their words, you know.
I like the word sauce,  know what I mean.
Like it w- like two years ago it was swag, now the wor- now it's sauce.
You know,  So I-  I like- I- I like some of the stuff they say too.
Mm.
Not really.
Like I- but like I always say,  I watch you and RD-NAME-2 and RD-NAME-2 keep doing y'all thing, man.
It's awesome.
I sh- I show you guys off all the time.
RD-NAME-2 know my boys.
She a-  she know my boys.
Mm-hm.
from Buffalo.
Yeah, so.
Yeah.
Mm-hm yeah.