Yes.
Oh okay,  um, so I'm from- born and raised in Rochester.
Um,  I grew up on, uh, two-  was it  t- one- RD-ADDRESS-6.
So it's in between RD-ADDRESS-3 and RD-ADDRESS-2 I think.
And it was weird, cause I grew up in a house behind a house.
And I grew up across the street from a recreation center, that was really important to my development.
So I spent m- most of my time there.
And then,  when I went to middle school, I moved on RD-ADDRESS-7.
Like by-  off of RD-ADDRESS-3.
So, kind of the same  situation.
A lot of crime, a lot of like,  drugs and stuff like that.
Um, but yeah.
Oh, um, well, the first house,  it was just weird because it was a- behind a house.
So, it was cool because we had like a lot of,  um, space to  play and, like, run around and stuff like that.
And, um,  you know,  it- it- like I said it was across the street from a recreation center, so it was like a basketball  c- hoo- hoop and,  uh, tennis, like a big field.
I played football like, with the boys.
There's a pool,  um,  there's like- you know, it's a food a desert.
So, there's like a lot of corner stores, not like a lot of  fresh  produce, or any of that kind of stuff.
Um, mostly black,  poor  people,  uh, for the most part.
Um,  yeah, and it was like right,  um, like down a hill, it was like also next to a hill, like we ride our bikes down.
Um, and it was next to my elementary school.
And then I would walk to  my middle school, that was kind of far.
Um,  and then the other street,  um,  was kind of a similar situation.
It was next to another school.
Um, but it was a lot more crime there, a lot more abandoned houses.
Um,  that was mostly a black neighborhood as well.
Uh, again a food desert, like I- my mom didn't have a car growing up.
So, like that was really,  uh, tough trying to get like fresh c-  produce and all that kind of stuff.
Um,  yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A lot of the Wegmans move out the ho- moved out the hood.
I actually just- m- g- went  to Wegmans earlier,  um, to get like a sub cause I love the subs, but.
Yeah.
But then I realized, like,  you know, I was thinking about that, I was talking, um, uh, with  my friend who also grew up, uh, in Rochester.
She has a different experience cause she grew up like in the  suburbs, stuff like that.
But we both went to, um, RD-SCHOOL-3.
And, uh, I was like, yo where's like, uh,  the closest Wegmans?
Like, I really wanna go to Wegmans.
Um, and yeah, the closest one is like,  n- nowhere near,  it's like twenty minute drive, you know.
Um, so yeah.
Uh, not near me, none that- I have like- like  t- I remember to like go to a grocery store, it was always a big hassle because  my mom didn't have a car.
And like, you really need a car to live in Rochester,  you know.
And so, like,  she would either have to  barter with like neighbors, and like, pay them money,  for gas money when she had it,  or like, ask a relative, but we still had to actually pay them.
And it- it like- the closest grocery was like maybe a fifteen, twenty minute drive at least.
And it's like not the best.
Like, Tops is like dirty and like, not-  Um, so yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I- um, I spent a lot of time there.
So, my mom, it was, uh, it- it was just my mom,  uh, my twin brother, I had a older brother and a sister,  and a nephew.
And so, my mom would work a lot and stuff like that.
And so, I actually spent a lot of my time there.
Um,  like,  I started going there from five, up until like  I actually started working there when I was in, uh, high school, as soon as I could.
Um, I really enjoyed going there.
Um,  you know, just, I played a lot of sports.
Uh, I usually was probably the only girl that  like, got dirty and all that kind of stuff.
And I would  swim everyday, like I just- I just was really involved  in that  community center.
And then when- as soon as I was old enough I started working there,  uh, with the kids, and  I think that's when I began to realize the kind of neighborhood that  I was living in.
Cause you- you know, you don't- you think everybody- You know, I just grew up with my mom.
So I thought  everybody didn't have like, a dad around as much.
Or, you know, they weren't that involved.
Like,  you know, that's when I feel like I start- started to learn  like what kind of environment I was really in.
But it wasn't until I got to RD-SCHOOL-3 that I was like, dang, I was really poor.
Like it was just such a stark difference that like, people actually paid cash for tuition.
I'm like,  what?
Um, and stuff like that.
And so,  all- I think all those different moments I started to realize, like, oh okay, I-  dang, I- I really did grow up, like, in a- a dis-  from a disadvantaged background but I didn't  realize the extent to it, because everyone around me was just in the same environment.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah, yeah.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-4 School,  RD-SCHOOL-7.
So that's the school I was saying like,  there's a recreation center- actually it was connected to a recreation center.
So, um, like the gym, they shared the same gym and stuff like that.
So, I went  to RD-SCHOOL-4 School.
And then I went to RD-SCHOOL-11 which I think is like, in a lot of trouble now.
Um, and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  um, for  high school.
And that was really-  and it- So,  those-  the RD-SCHOOL-2 School was really close.
I could just,  walk up the hill.
Like, my mom took me to like, the first day and then she's like, okay you got it, you know.
And then, um, middle school was actually like, kind of far.
Like, I mean, I guess considering at the time.
But I had a twin brother,  so we, you know, stuck together and like walked home all the time.
And that was like, probably like, a mile, or two.
Um,  you know, in the winters it was a little hectic, but, uh, it wasn't too bad.
But then when we moved to the RD-ADDRESS-3  address it was closer.
And then RD-SCHOOL-1 I had to  catch a bus.
And I went there because they had the RD-SCHOOL-7.
It's like this program for people  who wanna become teachers in the city s- Rochester city school district and that's what I thought initially I wanted to do.
So that's why I went to high school  there.
Even though it was kind of far, cause I was  thinking about going to RD-SCHOOL-2,  uh, RD-SCHOOL-4, yeah.
Um,  it was challenging because  I think at that point, um, so when I entered, I was like thirteen,  thirteen or fourteen.
And I think at that point I started to realize that,  you know,  not everybody's-  So, like,  uh, let me take a step back.
So,  I would participate in different community service activities.
So, one of the things that we did is like,  interact with like, um, sch- students that went to like suburban high schools.
And so I think like going to their facilities and stuff like that, I noticed-  like started to notice differences between like, the schools,  like, my school and their school.
So like,  my school, you know, soon as you walk- before you can get into the school you have to go through medical- medical- uh,   metal dete- detectors, yeah.
Uh, like, literally like, airport style.
Like you walk through, like it was really intense.
Um,  uh, but-  and so like, stuff like that.
But- and I played like three sports all my four years.
And um,  I had  good friends and good teachers.
Um, but-  and I did well in school, I don't think I struggled at all I think  in fact I probably wasn't challenged enough a lot of times.
Um,  but,  I definitely  m- I-  towards the end I definitely knew like-    So I- and so then I met like  really good teachers like that went to RD-SCHOOL-10.
And so I was first pe- person in my family to go to college, and I didn't realize like how-  um,  how  great of a school RD-SCHOOL-3 was.
Cause my mom actually worked there as a janitor for a long time.
And, you know, it's unfortunate because I lived so close  there.
By the time I was going, uh, to college, like I could- I lived right around the corner from the riverside.
I think it has apartments like literally one block away.
And, um,  you know, just not knowing all those resources.
But I think  I had really good teachers who,  uh, really were invested in me.
And- and saw something maybe at times I didn't see in myself.
Um, and I ha- I didn't have many black teachers like I can only recall like maybe two, and one of them actually passed away,  uh, whe- as we were graduating RD-NAME-5.
Um,  but he went to RD-SCHOOL-3.
He had, um, a brother, RD-NAME-5 at-  I don't know if you remember him,  uh, but he,  uh,  you know, I met at RD-SCHOOL-3 so that was really good.
And so, just having those teachers encourage me I think made a  huge difference in a lot of different stuff.
Yeah.
No.
Um, so- so, growing up in the environment I grew up in, I knew I had to get education.
Like, I-  for me I saw that as the only way to  do better in terms of the financial  strain that my family was constantly in.
Um, it-  it's just s- school was something I always excelled in and pu- and put a lot of time and effort into.
And so-  hello,  and so, um,  um,  so I always knew I wanted to go to college, but not necessarily RD-SCHOOL-3.
Again, even though my mom worked there, I didn't actually know,  um, the type of resources and stuff they had.
I just knew it cost like fifty thousand to go there.
And my mom made less than half  of that.
Uh, and I was like, there's no way I can afford to go there.
And so,  because at the time I wanted to be a teacher, I was like, oh maybe I'll go to like St.
John Fisher, or some of the smaller schools, um,  that had like scholarships and stuff like that for me.
And  I onl- l- I feel like the only reason I really applied to RD-SCHOOL-3 honestly is because of people like, um, RD-NAME-5 who I talked about before,  just kind of encouraged me, and my other teachers,  um, who went there,  um, just telling me about their experience.
And,  so, I kind of applied just to appease their like,  you know,  efforts in terms of trying to get me to apply.
And then when I got in and realized, oh, they're actually, like- this might actually be a good place.
And then,  I still actually was gonna pick St.
John Fisher, but I remember talking to people and saying like, oh you know I got into RD-SCHOOL-3, but I'll probably go with  St.
John Fisher, and they're like, what?
No, you need to go to RD-SCHOOL-3.
And then I feel like everyone kept telling me, so I'm like-  But for me it was enough  for me just to go to college.
At that time like I didn- I didn't-  I mean, I was like,  going to college is just a huge feat, just c- from the family I  came from.
And so,  I think just like, talking to people and hearing their reaction,  I was like, okay, I guess I'll go to RD-SCHOOL-3.
Like, literally that's like why I went.
That's why I chose that  versus like St.
John Fisher and it would ma- it made all the difference in terms of like,  the  things that I'm doing now, I don't think I woulda  did those things, had I  like went to a different school.
Um, and so I think just having,  uh,  mentors, and people just kind of guiding me,  an- and like expecting more from me, than I did at-  for myself,  I think made all the difference for me.
Yeah.
Ooh.
Um, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, ooh, um, oh, I mean,  it was-  it was challenging.
It challenged me in every, uh,  way.
So, I remember the- Like, for example the firs- So I majored in mathematics and political science.
So, you v-  political science had somewhat,  uh, more diverse students.
Um, but,  uh, math,  I was,  um, usually the only black student in my class.
And so,  um, I remember the first m- class I had,  uh, was calculus one-forty-one,  and  the teacher was going around asking people what school they went to.
Right?
And,  people were talking going to Exeter and all these schools I never heard of at the time.
I didn't know  the magnitude of like,  you know, that people actually pay to go to high school, like what?
But you know, people were saying all these schools I never heard of, and I remember  it got around to me, and the teacher asked me like what school I went to, I was li- I was proud that I went to RD-SCHOOL-1.
And I was like, you know, I went to RD-SCHOOL-1 High School.
And I could tell on her face, there was this kind of look, and I was like, what?
You know, I was kind of-  you know, I didn't know that in terms of the norms, uh, again with the professor, like this-  no one in my family went to college.
So I said- I challenged her and said what?
And she's like,  oh, you know, I just don't think you're gonna make it as a math major.
And she said this in front of the entire class.
Yeah, um,  and I- I had- uh, I don't remember what I said at the time, but I s- I will- I didn't care, I said something back to her.
And, but I was very hurt.
And I remember going back to my dorm room and crying and calling my mom.
uh,  yeah.
Yeah,  uh, but you know what,  it- it really,  f- f- thankfully I'm the kind of person in which- I- when I'm challenged in that way,  it actually-  it  propels me to work harder,  and so,  she was right in a sense that I was not prepared, um,  for that class.
Because w-  uh, you know like, I took pre-calc, but it just-  you know, RD-SCHOOL-1 did not prepare me for college.
And so what I did was, I went to her class,  uh,  but I also went to another professor who was teaching it,  and I would go,  not getting credit for it,  I w- I didn't- I don't even think I really told many peo- d- many people this, but  I would go to his class, just to hear the lecture twice.
And like go to office hours and things like that.
And I got a A in- in her class and I think,  in part it was because she told me  that I couldn't.
Um, and so I did- I end up doing well in that  class and  a lot of, uh, those math classes, I had very similar experiences.
Nothing as daunting, or,  um, traumatic I think, as that first experience, but I definitely had more implicit kind of,  uh, racially, o- um,  things happening in math classes.
So, I'd often  sit in the front row, um, to make- to make sure that, like, the professor knew I wasn't cheating.
And,  I felt like I often had to do different things that I- I know- knew for sure  that my other classmates didn't have to be concerned about.
Um,  and so, yeah, it wa- it was really unfortunate.
And  political science to some extent was like that.
I think  it helped that there was more diverse, uh, students in that,  um, major.
And so often, I would have at least one or two other  students, um, even in the higher level classes with me.
Um,  and I had one, uh, black female friend who  was in political science that I think helped- we helped get each other through, like, those are higher level classes, where,  it- we weren't like the only  few students.
But in my math classes,  I felt  li- like that first experience very similarly,  uh, throughout all those fourteen classes I had to take.
Um,  but  outside of academics, I was really involved in the Black Student's Union and  other, um, groups.
And I think that really helped me  to,  um, understand,  more about my identity and history and that  it's-  and to demand, like,  justice and all these different things and that it's okay  to- to be black on this campus and that,  even though I know that for sure that are people that don't want me there, like I can actually excel here and get something,  uh, from this experience.
And so,  I think participating- I remember Jena Six happened.
Um, like all these different things happened.
We were doing protests and just,  different stuff on campus and I think that really,  uh, made me f- uh, enjoy my experience a lot more.
So when I look back on my experience in college, I often  think about BSU and all these other groups.
I actually, went to an event they had,  uh, for freshman, just to go because I was in town, and just to,  you know, talk to the students there.
And it's- and thankfully it's actually a lot more st- uh,  black and Latino students now, than it definitely was when I was there.
Um, um, so I think that was really comforting to see.
Ooh sorry.
But- um,  uh,  but yeah, it- uh, it was a crazy experience, and I think  there's all these different mix of emotions that goes on.
Like-  then I get these e-mails about going  to a happy hour, or,  anything like that.
Like, I- uh, I'm in Washington DC and so,  there's actually a lot of RD-SCHOOL-3 st- um, alumni students alumn- al- alumni, yeah,  students, um,    in DC.
So they often have these, um,  happy hours.
And I'm always like,  do I wanna go and be the only black person again, or?
Like I know what kind of students go here.
It's a bunch of Ivy League rejects who just think too highly of themself.
So like, do I actually wanna be around that?
Uh,  um, you know, in the past I had to be around that, but do I actually wanna subject myself to that?
But I'm glad I went to like one because  there was other, like, um, students, like,  black students that were there,  that graduated b- before me, that happened to be there, that I think,  had I not gone to that happy hour, I would not know they were actually in DC.
And so it was really cool  to reconnect with those people, but it still was the same thing all over again.
Me sitting by myself,   the other black  students coming, and being like, oh hey what's up?
And like,  actually talking to me and not,  you know.
Again, like,  I was again, rendered invisible  to these students.
Um,  and so, it sh- s-  it's just like,  hard,  um,  yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, Yup.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yeah.
I think it might be worth it.
I was really shocked to- to see like three or four people that I  knew in college, like, pretty well.
And I had no idea that they were there.
And I had just got to DC, so I was trying to kind of build my network,  of people.
Um, so I'm glad I went, you know.
Yeah I was, yep, yep, yep.
I was in the RD-SCHOOL-4 Yeah,  yeah, yeah.
Uh-uh, no.
I feel,  I have a very negative view of her, cause I feel,  like, I think she's a nice woman, but I feel,  like-  like,  she tried to take over OMSA  like the Office of Minority Student Affairs.
And I feel like, if you're a white person and you're working on behalf of students of color,  I think  she doesn't bring enough humility in  the understanding that  you are only gonna understand our experience to the extent that we allow you  to view them,  and there's certain things that you n- just never gonna know  as a white woman,  that, uh, we have to deal with.
And I think that once I left,  you know, sh- it just always-  she always made it seem that she was gonna like,  check up on us, and stuff like that.
But once I left, it was- she was only concerned  about what fellowships I was getting  if I graduated, and like, she was just concerned about the numbers,  to get, like, more grants.
And,  I, um,  yeah, I mean I- if I am on campus I'll say hello to her, but I don't feel,  like,  any connection to her anymore.
If anything, like, I'll go talk to, like, the people in the OMSA office, like, yesterday, when I was on campus I saw Mr.
RD-NAME-1  and RD-NAME-4, so I like talked to them.
But I think,  that,  y-  you know, she just has a lack of self awareness in my opinion, as a white woman working on these types of issues.
Um,  yeah.
Y- yeah, okay, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, okay, ooh.
Yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-3 actually.
Yeah, so that's why I'm not- I don't think RD-NAME-1 is like a bad person, I just don't-  so and I think her in- bu- uh, but as well as other people who work on the staff, like really,  uh, made the difference, uh, for my decision to go to grad school.
But it really,  was my advisor, RD-NAME-8 I don't know if you know her, while she was there.
So she was the only black professor I think I had at RD-SCHOOL-3 maybe one of two.
Um, and so, actually, when I came in, like, I came in as a math major,  and I was- you know, you have to take other courses so I was taking political science, but it was just kind of like,  j- just taking it, I didn't really know that I w- I would be that interested in political science.
And so when I did RD-SCHOOL-2, you know, you have to have a mentor in a- a-  a discipline.
I'm like,  I had a terrible experience in math.
I lo- I really enjoyed math, but I just didn't have  like a professor that I would think that actually would believe in my ability to do mathematical research.
Or even just do math in general.
Um, and so, I was like, okay, I- I don't think,  you know,  I wanna do my RD-SCHOOL-2 project in math.
Um, and so I was like, okay I'll just do political science, and okay, I'll do it with RD-NAME-8 she's,  like,  black professor.
Like, she's pretty cool.
Um, and so I, um, partnered with her,  and, um, that really made the difference, to kind of see, um, someone who looked like me, and to-  to see that, this is something that I could possibly  do.
And then so, I think through that experience, it really was transformative.
Um,  and so, that's when I  decided to- to- to ge- to possibly go to grad school.
The whole time I kept saying, I don't wanna go to school for another five to seven years.
Like I don't really, you know, I don't know about this.
But, um,   but I  would go through all the steps, take the GRE, apply to grad school.
Again, the whole time,  it's not that I'm doubting my capability of doing grad school, but it's just that,  the time that it took,  you know.
It just was un-  imaginable for me to go to grad school, because no one in  my family went to college.
So, I thought if I go to college,  I'll get like a good job after.
And that will be,  like enough,  um, and so, the whole time when I'm applying to these grad programs, I'm  very skeptical that I'll  get in I- I guess, but  more so the fact that I didn't want to go to school for another,  five s- five to seven years.
Um,  and I knew that would bring a different set of challenges  in that, I would be in this new place, where I didn't know anyone.
Um,  cause I dang sure was not gonna go to Rochester for grad school.
Um, so, uh, yeah.
But- Yeah.
No, I- RD-SCHOOL-12 yes, yeah,  uh-huh.
M- Oh, um,  so, when I went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  I, um, did like- had like a- kind of like a- similar to like a bridge program sort of, I guess.
Um, cause I got this fellowship, and part of the fellowship was that  you could possibly go earlier  and  like, get more acclimated, and stuff like that, and I chose to do that because  I didn't know anyone in Michigan and so I thought this would be a good opportunity to meet other students  of color or just like, minority students, before the semester.
And so, I decided to go earlier,  although I did wanna work to, like, make money, cause I didn't have any,  money to like,  even move  from Rochester to Michigan.
Um, but the good thing  about that program was that they  gave you f- uh, like f-  like some money to move before.
So, I was like, okay, cool, I'll do this.
They're paying me to like,  take classes, or like, do research.
Like, fine, I'll do this.
And  I- I met like people in my program and stuff like that.
And compared to RD-SCHOOL-3,  it's so different, right?
Because RD-SCHOOL-3 is so small.
It's like,  five thousand students.
RD-SCHOOL-3 is this Big Ten school,  twenty-five thousand  undergrad students, fifteen thousand grad students.
So, it's this massive,  uh,  campus.
But it's a coll- very much a college town.
And Rochester, to a certain extent is sort of getting that way, with how their-  all the construction that they're doing.
Um,  but I think  that  RD-SCHOOL-3 was very different in the sense that  in that town, in RD-SCHOOL-6,  uh, a super majority of the population is college educated.
Uh, you know, I didn't see, like, neighborhoods that I saw, like, growing up, like, where I grew up it was nothing like that.
And so I think  it was very different in a sense that, like, it was not a lot of people of color.
It's mostly white people who are college educated in terms of the surrounding  area.
Whereas Rochester is just very different.
Although, the campus likes to  pretend that it's in this bubble, that somehow is  not connected to the Rochester community, which drives me nuts.
Um,    but in terms of the actual campus itself,  I think that, um,  it was just a huge transition, because  grad school is just so different than undergrad.
You know, you don't have this advisor that's like looking out for you and stuff like that.
But again, I think what made the difference for me is I had that one black professor.
Um, who I felt was really looking out for me the whole time, throughout my  graduate  tenure.
Um, and so, I think that that really made the difference.
Um,  and again, it's kind of the same thing  in terms of  people questioning my ability.
So, I remember coming in.
So, political science a- actually a very quantitative program.
A lot of people may not know that.
And so, coming in with this math background, although it was- it wa- it- you know, it was difficult to get, um,  I was- a- actually I had a huge advantage compared to my classmates.
And so,  I remember  like, um,  coming in,  getting  like-  I didn't really like- you know, people would pair off and stuff like that.
And of course all the white people work to-  together.
And it was like, maybe, like, me and another  black girl and a few  like, uh, Asian American students.
Um,  but, you know, no one- b- even the other black gir- or,  not necessarily, because I actually knew her from this other program.
But I feel like,  outside of her I felt like a lot of people,  didn't think I could do the statistics and math work.
And so when I would get the  problem sets done, or get the homework done, they'd be like, how do you know how to do this?
I'm like oh, I have a bachelor's in math.
And they're like, what?
You know, because no one- when you hear math, you don't see, like a black woman's face.
You know, and so, I think a lot of people didn't- didn't  realize, like, that I was able to  keep up with the work I guess.
Um, and so,  all of a sudden, when they found that out, I got all these new friends, you know.
And I remember, like, basically, like, almost tutoring some of my classmates, like in some of the  like, g- uh, game theory and like, very like, um, mathy classes.
Um,  you know, and then once they were- once the classes are done they were gone, you know.
And so I- I kind of, uh, knew that, but, um,  it actually helped me, even though, like,  I knew what they were doing actually helped me to become a better student, I think, actually  in that I- when you're able to, like, teach something to someone else that shows that you really-  really know your-  your stuff.
Um, but it was a lot of similar experience.
Um,  I think it- it can also feel more personal in grad school though, because,  uh, it's very much an isolated experience.
It's really about you and your own work and your own capabilities, where I feel like,  um, in undergrad I f-  felt more of a  community in terms of the  day to day oppression I was experiencing.
I'm like, I know that  like  everyone else is going through this too.
I think it can be-  it- it's very easy  to internalize that  um,  those feelings, um, in grad school, because  a lot of times, people would personally attack your work and, like, the things you're interested in,  especially if you're a person of color, studying communities of color,  you know.
When a white person does it, it's like, oh, this is so interesting and like,  you're so,  objective, because you're not black, or a person of color.
And it's like,  no, like, you can actually do objective work and be black and like,  that's fine.
And so I think,  those different things, were just much more personal in terms of  just trying to justify, like, why you're studying stuff.
So when like you know, like,  the other white people in your program, if they study similar things, or if they  just studied white people,  even though they don't call it that,  you know, they don't get these sort of question in terms of- of your motives.
Um,  so yeah, I think-  yeah.
Sorry, that was like a long response.
Yeah.
Sure, sure, sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh-huh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Ooh,  I think that's the thing that's challenging, right?
Like,  you go g- you get in grad school because you did well in your course work in undergrad.
So like, you know how to be a student,  you know how to take classes,  you know,  you're amazing at that, you know, that's why you got into grad school.
And so I think once-  And I think what was also difficult for me, I actually lost my mother when I was in grad school.
And so, uh, that was just really challenging.
Um,  in terms of like, I've-  you know,  just in terms of that whole thing.
I could talk about that later.
But I think, like, once you get into dissertation phase, like,  it is really really difficult, because you don't- you don't n- you're not trained to know how to do  this type of process.
Um,  think it's just- um,  yeah it was just really- it's a really rough transition.
Like, uh, people in my program call, like, that  year from taking classes to dissertation, like, the-  the, like, wandering year, or whatever.
Because, like,  you know, it's like, what am I supposed to do with all this time now that I have?
Like, I don't  have classes when I'm expected to be working all the time.
Um,  p-  it's just really challenging, and so for me, I think  it was just really hard.
Um,  c- so, my program we have to like, write a proposal that  depending on your advisor, can be a substantial proposal sort of lines.
My advisor wanted, like a pretty substantial proposal.
And I think it was just really, uh,  hard, because,  you know, like I said, you're not taught to do this.
And so, it's just  constantly questioning yourself.
Especially because I studied black and Latino  politicians for my dissertation.
And so,  you know, again, the ment- doing the mental work of, like,  I feel like sometimes, implicitly, or explicitly people want you to explain, like, why you're doing this work and s-  and sort of  do it in a way to make sure you cover your bases.
Um, constantly checking your stuff, cause again, I think- I feel like people,  um, think that you're doing this, or you have some kind of  vested interest, um,  to get l- s- or to see a certain result.
And so I think,  that mental work and then also, like,  p- like doing different presentations, or trying to get feedback from other people  in our program, I think, was some- some- ch- sometimes challenging, but  luckily we had, like-  we didn't have, like, that diverse of a,  um, program.
Like it was like maybe six other black people, out of, like, over a hundred students.
It was not  a lot of  black people or- and then like, maybe one or two Latinos, but  I think we would get together and like, provide feedback for each other's, like,  um,  dissertation, or projects.
And so, I think that really helped  my transition and like,  you know, writing the dissertation phase.
But it was just very challenging.
Um, and so, what I- I would-  w- what I did is just kind of made it a job.
And so I said, I work best in the mornings, so I would go to campus at six A.M.
And I would work, um, because no one was there  at least 'til, like, ten.
So, I know at least in those four hours I can get some, like,  really good stuff done.
And so, I just would go and work on it everyday,  and just come up with different, like,  superficial deadlines and different things that I wanted to do.
And make different, like, short term and long term gro- goals.
And that really helped me,  but I felt like, um,  because there's all this pressure to like, spend all this  extraordinary time, on stuff, or to stay late.
I feel like people really value that in my program.
And I'm just like,  you know, I tried to do that, but then I realized like, no.
I need to do what works for me and what works for me is to- to get up really early and to go.
And somehow people were always impressed that I would come early, but I just like, no, I'm just going.
But I would also, like, leave earlier too, because at a certain point I was tired.
And also, um, there's just like a lot of people and stuff like that.
And so for me, I just made it a job and just kind of worked on it  and met with my advisors and  kept me honest about the different goals I had, but  it was definitely times,  especially after my mom passed away where  it was just really difficult to,  try to,  you know, have that motivation to work  on that- uh, on the dissertation because there's no one like, watching over you.
you just-  Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Um,  I think it was, b- when my mom passed away.
Um, so for me,  I think it was sure  I think so, I think initially,  I began questioning it maybe  when I started writing my dissertation, I got more familiar just kind of with  the trajectory of the people of color in my discipline in terms of  them  having  everything they needed  typically for tenure.
And then actually  not getting it  a lot of times.
And  it was very clear that,  um,  you know, it- in part, I think it was because  of them being a person of color, sending people of color, and then  just maybe, pure racism  and discrimination.
Um, and so I think  for me it was hard because  a lot of the professors that I would see, with the exception of my advisor, there was actually not a lot of senior black  professors, or l- Latino professors, like they would often not get tenure and things like that.
And then,  more than that,  I think it was just when I taught.
I did  fine teaching, but it was just  challenging,  uh, not in terms of the work,  but in terms of the mental capacity.
Um, because being a black woman, um,  you know, people don't expect you to be a professor, you think professor, you think of a old white man, you know.
You don't think of a black woman with a afro.
Um,  and, you know, I just   they would just challenge me with dumb stuff and I'm like, I don't want my job to depend on eighteen and nineteen year olds.
Um,  but then more than that, I felt like as a professor, I thought the impact that I could make-  um, given like the things that I've been through, I thought the impact that I could make,  on the lived experience of people of color I thought was very limited, in terms of,  you know, these certain, uh, students of color actually being able to even make it to this level  of graduate school, or undergrad.
Um, so I just wanted to make a larger impact on, like, social justice issues.
And I felt like,  it would be very difficult to do that, from the perspective, of being a faculty member.
And so I think it's just all these different things at once and I feel like,  when I lost my mom,  I think I- it- it kept me honest about a lot of things it- it showed me the- how limited our time is  and- uh, on this earth and- and like what we wanna do to, like, make a impact.
And so,    I was like, I don't wanna be a professor.
So, I gotta be honest about that.
And so,  I think for me,  um,  I knew I could do it, but I just didn't want to.
And I think I'm okay,  w- with, uh, living with that decision.
Uh, and I think it probably disappointed, um, some of my faculty members.
But thing about it is, like, this is my life  and I have to choose how I wanna live it and what kind of impact I wanna make.
And it's not to say that I don't think it's purpose, in terms of diversity with faculty members.
I think it's  super super important.
I wish I had more,  uh,  p-  fa- faculty of color when I was at RD-SCHOOL-3, e- or especially in grad school too, but,  um, I just  didn't feel like,   um,  that was the means in which I could-  I wanted to make my impact.
Not that you can't, but it's just challenging.
Especially my- my discipline is just an old white man's club.
Um,  yeah.
Academia in general.
Um, it just- it tra- attracts a- a different kind of personality.
I think in some ways I have some of the  personality traits of an aca-  academic, but I  also care about social jus- justice issues.
And I feel  like,  um, you know, you're not  r- if anything you're- you're punished for,  um, speaking out about those things, especially as a  faculty member that's not tenured.
And, um,  yeah, I just didn't want it.
I didn't wanna do- I- I could do it, but I didn't want to.
I think dealing with those students was really a profound moment.
You know, having- having students ask me,  can we- can you, uh,  do a review before the quiz?
No, I can't do a review before the quiz.
Or, um, you know, s- uh, one student like copied from Wikipedia.
And I caught him.
He said he  made that entry to Wikipedia.
Like, you know, just like,  really?
You know,  so, just  like I said, the- the-  the just mental capacity it takes, to just be challenged  in every single way.
Not- not in terms of your-  your ability, which I'm actually okay with, cause people being j- but- but just  you know it's because of who you are.
And you knew that if you were a white man, or even just a man of color that,  perhaps you won't get challenged in the same ways.
And I think  that for me,  I cannot just grin and bear it, like, this is something that I would wanna  speak out about and, you know, as a-  not having your job security yet, uh, you can't really do that.
Um,  so, I just decided that was something-  wasn't something for me.
But it's weird because with the job I have now,  I still go to the same academic conferences, that, uh,  you know, I see my, uh, graduate student- my fellow gr- former graduate students, um,  and undergrad sometimes even.
But like,  fa- faculty members I still see them.
Like, I just came back  from one before I came home.
Uh,  so, it's weird.
And it's funny because, um,    you know,  they are looking at me like, why are you here?
Basically, like, you didn't get a academic job so they maybe think that I'm trying to, like, apply for academic jobs, cause,  that's a major conference in my discipline.
So, you would go there if you're, like, on the job market.
And I remember,  people asking me  conference, like, how is life?
But they would ask it in this way that's like,  are you sad?
Like, are you disappointed in that  you didn't get, like, an academic job?
Like, literally that's I feel like, how they're asking the questions, and it's like, no, I'm actually very good, I'm very happy, and I really am.
Like, I'm not putting on because, like, they're no one to put on for.
Um, but  I definitely  got this feeling that somehow,  I should be  disappointed in myself, because I didn't go to academia.
Um,  yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yes, mm-hm.
Oh yeah.
So- um, so, I've been working there for about  five, or so months.
So, I actually- I finished my dissertation in March,  end of March, and I moved, like, less than a week later, to start the job.
Um, so I'm currently a research director at RD-WORK-3, which is a nonprofit that works on voting rights, voting registration.
Uh, I work with mostly lawyers who do, like, a lot of litigation and suing state governments.
I basically help provide the research to- and the motivation for their, um,  legisla- um,  their litigation  pursuits.
Um,  so, just providing evidence of discrimination, whether  implicit or k- e- explicit  in terms of the end results of people of color and how they're rejected a lot of times for voter roles  and they probably think that they're registered to vote, but they're not.
Um, also do like,  different grassroots stuff, and help  support smaller nonprofits who are doing,  um, voter registration.
Um, and then I travel and do some- some training  and helping smaller organizations become  more effective in how they do voter registration and  providing like, different,  uh, ways they can collect data on that.
And like, re-  like, re-  structure how they maybe do voter registration.
Um,  so that's basically what I do.
Um,  what else did you ask?
Sorry.
Oh how I like DC.
Oh, um, so DC, I love DC, cause it's- it's like, it's so many,  black per- young professionals and so that, yeah, just-  I don't know, I feel like I-  um,  it's really cool just to see.
And, um, it's just very different in Rochester, cause I felt like,  at least like, the people I went to high school and stuff like that, it's like, you know,  a lot of black people, but not necessarily a lot of black professionals .
And where in- in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where I went to grad school, it's just like,  you know, mostly all grad students, and so, they come from different backgrounds.
I actually feel like  I didn't relate to a lot of them cause they- they come from, like, very pivi- privileged backgrounds.
And actually had a difficult time, like, meeting or relating to people actually, other black students even sometimes, at RD-SCHOOL-3.
But then, um,  in DC I just feel-  I actually feel real at home, like, being there and I feel like,  I met a lot of people that  kind of relate to like, my experience and they're still like,  um, working on very c- like, cool things.
Um, and  yeah, I met a lot of, uh, friends, like, from church and stuff like that.
So, I really like living there.
It's expensive, but I really like living there.
And I really,  uh, like the work that I'm doing.
Course, you know, there's always stuff about jobs or-  and stuff that you don't like, but I think overall, I really like living there.
Yeah,   Sure.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Oh, um,  Just like, you know, a lot of gentrification,  you know.
Uh, that's the one thing I definitely notice.
You know, definitely noti- Like we were saying earlier, all the Wegmans moved out the hood  into the suburbs and just noticing like a lot of,  um,  RD-SCHOOL-3 taking over everywhere.
Like, the college town,  like it was so different, cause like everything was just in that bubble and then now they took over, like, that Mount Hope area.
It's like a lot of,  um, RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um,  it's funny cause I came back for my high s- ten year high school reunion and just kind of  seeing like, people I went to high school with just kind of,  you know, doing the same things, working, like, these menial jobs, actually made me feel pretty sad.
And I often feel  really guilty I guess.
Um, especially  more so with my family,  uh, cause they really struggle financially.
And I  supported them like, for- like, even in grad school  I found ways to support them financially, but I don't really do it,  as much, um, so, that's really difficult I think.
Um,  and it's also hard, because people- when I come home, people expect me  to be the same person, talk the same way, talk about the same things.
And so I think it's always really challenging coming home.
And, um, ev- each time I come home, I'm ec- excited initia- initially with this  feeling of nostalgia and,  um, wanting to meet- wanting to meet up with everyone.
But I feel like soon after  those few days, especially after my mom passed away,  I'm ready to go.
And I feel really bad about that, but I- I- I usually am ready to go.
Uh, just because, uh, it's really difficult for me to see my family struggling, and I have the means to help them, but then,  how do I help them  without enabling them?
And I feel like that's what I'm  doing often times so I- it- it's- it's actually really challenging to come home.
And then when I come home,  its just, everything's different, I have to G- GPS to get around everywhere.
Um, especially like the social stuff, like the clubs, they always change names,  close and stuff like that.
I'm not really into that, that's what they're trying to do, and I realize that  everything's just so different, um,  yeah.
Uh,  really just like meeting up with people I guess.
There's nothing,  uh, in particular I mean, g- I guess going to Wegmans if I have to pick something.
Um, but really just kind of- of meeting up with people.
I mean, sometimes I go to campus, too.
Like I went to campus yesterday, but it's usually,  connected to,  um, something in particular.
Um, like, the  Black Student's Union had the event, or  maybe vi- visiting the, uh, Office of Minority Student Affairs or something like that.
Um,  yeah.
I don't come home that often, like I said, because of it's just really- mentally, uh, it's, really difficult.
Um, because like- you know, mom- so my mom passed away when I was in grad school.
And so,  w- when I come home, it's like I expect to see her and then I can't see her, so that's just very difficult.
And then, like I said earlier, my family and stuff like that, um,  so I guess,  you know, it's- it's such a weird thing.
So, I come home, I'm all excited,  uh, about twenty-four hours, I'm ready to go because of the stress  and the- the mental exhaustion and stuff.
Cause even when I come home, it's not really home, because  I have to stay with, like, a family friend because  my b- like my brother and sister and my nephew and stuff live together, but they don't  have like space for me to even stay there, and so often I don't- I never, this-  this is, like, always my home, but I never feel at home anymore, um, since my mom passed away.
Uh, so it- it's just- yeah, it's challenging.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Oh sure, sure.
Oh yeah, definitely.
It's usually more- People don't know where the heck Rochester is a lot of times.
Like in- even in DC, like, some people do, some people don't.
But I think,  they think I have like a New York C- New York City accent, but then it's like-  it's just only, like, with certain words, or-  but they kn- they know it's like a little bit different.
So, they're like, uh, I d- can't quite place her accent.
And I think it's a little-  and I think I'm sure I have like,  a little bit of a Michigan influence, um, because I lived there for six years, possibly.
Um,  but yeah.
I don't-  I don't think everyone- no one has ever specifically said, you have like a Rochester accent.
I think it's in terms of like, the Black English, in term of the slang words as in things I might use.
Like, mad, or- or, you know, different things like that.
Um,  they're like, oh, you know, that's like a New York  slang word like, where are you from kind of thing and this usually comes  in conversation where I'm talking to other black people.
Like, I think w- white people don't understand what Black English is, or  understand what slang is.
I think they just dismiss it as it being like an  ignorant  thing, versus, like, a actual dialect.
Um, yeah.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, I think-  I- I feel like I'm usually  like a little lost if there's like- uh, like, new words, but I definitely feel like  the way I talk is very different too.
Like,  I- I- I was thinking about this,  um,  actually  yesterday.
Or like the last few days I'm hanging around  my classmates from  s- high school.
And I definitely feel like  talk very different when I'm around them.
Um, you know, that code switching is- is very unconscious.
Um,  and then like,  you know,  like for example, like, they'll just- they kept bringing up the fact that like  I'm a doctor now.
Um,  so-  and some of them actually don't really know what that means in terms of Ph.D.
versus medical doctor.
And so, um, like,  it-  it'll com- it would come up in the most stupid way.
Like,  um, oh I need to know how to work, like, the stereo for my friends place, where I wanted to like, listen to like,  more R- R and B soul and not like Future, and I didn't really like  listening, like, sitting down and like having that as like the background music.
And they're like, oh, it's because you a doctor now.
you know, and stuff like that and I'm just like, uh, not really.
Um,  and- and things like that, I feel like, um,  there's definitely this constant effort to-  to-  to make me feel different now, or to expect that I'm different now.
Or to expect that the reasons why  I may have a different opinion about something, is because of somehow it's related to the-  to the amount of  education that I've received.
Um, like for example, a lot of pe- most all the people I went to school with, have kids.
I don't have kids.
And I don't have kids because I'm not married.
And when I say that,  that really, s-  strikes a chord with them an- and- an- and so,  when they ask me questions it's really about  kids,  they'll ask que- a question about  whether you have kids or not.
Or n- no, it's  really actually not a question of whether you have kids or not, it's how many you have, right?
So this expectation  that you're-  you're twenty-eight like somehow you should have kids.
Um, and to tell them, like, I don't have kids because I've been in school for a long time,  basically since we've got out of high school,  uh, is very perplexing to them.
Uh, they don't really get it.
Um,  and so,  um,  I f- often feel bad  by saying that, but that is why and so when people ask me, so, I think,  uh, it's just really, uh,  challenging.
Um,  yeah.
Sorry I don't know if I answered your question, okay.
Um.
Uh-huh.
Um,  no.
Yeah if you have- if you need me to clarify something, or- I'm happy to do that, but.
Okay  okay.
Oh, yeah yeah, yeah, transcribing it, you can call me if I wasn't clear on something, or- if I messed with the microphone at some point.
I'm fine with that.
yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I- I get it.