Okay.
Cool.
Sh- should we do that-   Yeah.
No doubt.
RD-ADDRESS-1 Street?
Or no.
Wha- is  RD-SCHOOL-1 School what's  now that school,  like Nathaniel?
Three?
Oh, yup yup yup.
Gotcha.
Um,  I  grew up in the nineteenth ward.
Um,  and we- so my parents bought their house in nineteen seventy-nine,  um,  when they got married,  and  kept the house.
Uh, so I grew up there my whole life, on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street.
It's, um,  almost near where, uh,  RD-ADDRESS-3 Street and RD-ADDRESS-4 Boulevard,  um, meet.
Um,  yeah, so  I  have- have- had the blessing of, um,  living in the same house my whole life.
And I was born in that house by accident,  um,  b- It's a fun-  fun story.
Alright then.
Um, so  I'm the youngest.
I have two, uh- an older brother and an older sister.
Um, so,  you know, it wasn't-  wasn't like my mom was inexperienced.
When I tell this story, everybody thinks like, oh is it one of those she didn't know she was pregnant?
She knew she was pregnant.
She knew what to do.
She just didn't do it.
Um,  she woke up,  uh, Christmas Eve  and, um,  pretty much she felt like,  uh,  you know,  labor  coming on.
She- it wasn't clear at first, and then she kind of realized like, yeah that's what's- that's what's happening.
So,  um, you know, he was getting the car ready f- um,  you know, it's winter, he's warming up the car and getting it ready, um,  going to Strong, so very close.
And she comes downstairs, and she's like,  I, uh-  I just gotta use the bathroom.
And he's like, no, like don't, you- don't.
We can't have the baby here.
Like, come on let's just get in the car.
And she always- you know, she knows what's best.
So  she did go to the bathroom,  and then she kind of got stuck in like a hovered  position over the toilet.
And, um,  she- yeah, she just was kind of locked in in that position.
And, uh,  I ended up  coming out f-  um, he tried to  catch me, um,  and  I was slippery as a greased pig.
And, uh,   Yeah.
And dropped me in the toilet.
Um, and so then, I guess  he also  he tried to make it a little bit more convenient and lifted the toilet seat  to get me out, but  I'm still attached.
Yeah, so, um, so yeah.
It's- that's awesome too, like,  you know,  still having the- uh, you know, my sister and her son now live in that house, and still having the house that I was born in  and  a really ridiculous story like that.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
And some- some more background too,  um,  he is number eight of ten kids.
Um,  and  I had a question  cause  I've like  looked more into like,  you know,  Corn Hill before it was Corn Hill.
And it was b- super black.
Um,  and- Mm-hm.
Um,  m-  Char- Doctor Lunsford, I  I guess that's where I got like my kind of  basis.
I was looking up information about  him.
And,  um,  you know, there were like black  doctors, dentists, you know, like those very self  sufficient.
Mm.
RD-NAME-2?
RD-NAME-2?
Mm.
Hm.
Um,  I think- I don't know if I see  a big difference.
And,  um,  so like  I went to college for black studies,  and I feel like  in college, I was kind of opened up to a lot of stuff that    I was maybe blind to a little bit,  um, in- in growing up.
Um, growing up in a mixed family, um,  yeah, I th- feel like I had like some color blindness  to me,  whereas like, w- wha- you know, th- there- to some degree, there's like this like  just happy and everyone accepts everyone, because in my family, like,  you know, both sides did  really get along,  um,  pretty well.
And,  you know, I would got to school with mostly students of color.
Um, my friends were  mostly  people of color, but I still had  my white friends, and  so my groups were like-  were mixed, you know.
Um,    and, um,  I did- I d- still- I remember like  kind of distinctly  s- at some point in middle school,  my shift being like, I really like being around black people, you know.
Um, and, um, you know, I don't know what  th-  the s-  what was behind thay, but,  um-  but it s- wasn't like,  you know,  fuck whitey,  but it was, you know, like  b- but, you know, I'd- there- it was definitely a preference.
Um,  so as far as the neighborhood, um, like  some things that I remember   um,  we always kind of  saw our street as like being  like  around the corner from the hood, you know,  um, and the nineteenth ward really has like those pockets where,  um,  there's like, you know, high drug activity, or, you know, whatever it is in like certain  areas.
And then you can like th- s-literally turn a corner,  and it's very different.
Um,    so  I remember like,  you know, my sister and I sneaking out of the house.
He knows about these things.
Um,  you know, sneaking out and like wanting to, you know, at night, be like-  seek out  that-  those sce- you know, like  those scenes.
Um,  and I still fell like there-  there's-  that's still the case today, you know,  um,  that w- like, our little area felt  little too safe, and so we wanted to like find some danger, you know.
And I f- still feel like that's,  um, the case.
Um,  right in our neighborhood, we had, um-  you know, we used to have-  I went to  RD-SCHOOL-4 School which is now RD-SCHOOL-1 School  on RD-ADDRESS-2  and, um, we used to have like the- a corner store there and like,  you know, my mom had us out there  like picketing because they were like selling drugs and had illegal guns and stuff like that.
And,  um-  and she got- you know,  she helped get rid of that store, which I was pretty resentful of.
Um,   you know, that was like  the five cent candy store, you know.
Um, but, um-  but yeah, I don't know.
I think,  um, to that degree, I think that  the nineteenth ward has  stayed kind of constant in that  another thing that I noticed in the nineteenth ward, when I,  um, came back  home from college,  um,  I got involved in the,  uh-  the community association  in the nineteenth ward.
And  it's mostly run by white people.
Um,  I think,  to me, when I look at-  at  my neighborhood,  it feels more black than white,  um, and I know that obviously there are still white people there.
But,  um-  but I see white people stepping up to those positions,  and also our slogan is, urban by choice.
And  that began  to  bother me,  um,  cause I'm like, whose choice is it to be urban, you know?
It's your choice to be urban, you- you know, like th- like he's saying with Corn Hill.
Like  these people  chose to come in because  some white people with money  created  a space that they would feel safe in.
Um, so you made that choice, but a lot of people don't have the choice.
People- you know, like, we don't have the ch- like,  oh yeah, we wanna live in sub- suburbs,  you know, but  w- we like it here, you know.
You know, like there- it's not a choice, you know.
Um,  so, yeah, so the- there are things, um, that I've- I've like  been able to put more words and like more critique to, since, uh,  coming back from college.
Um, i- but  honestly when I look, a lot of that  s- feels the same  as when I was growing up.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah.
Mm.
Did not know that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  so  I'm gonna tangent a little bit and try to bring it back.
B- but, um, you know, I r- remember, um,  the  Arnett RD-WORK-4,  um,  and  we now have the RD-WORK-2  RD-WORK-1.
And I don't know if you know the difference,  but  Arnett was like  popping, ha- you know, had a swimming pool- it like- it had what normal RD-WORK-4's have, and,  um,  they shut that down when I was a kid.
Um,  and,  you know, people in the neighborhood were like, what  the hell?
You know, like,  we  now have nothing here  and fought to get th- you know, to get anything.
And we were given the RD-WORK-3, which is  one floor, has a very- you know, like very small gym, very small dance space,  very small space for like  after school programming.
No  basketball courts, no swimming pool, like  just- it has almost nothing.
It-  I feel it was made  to fail,  um,  and they didn't realize that,  you know, people wanted it.
And so,  we- you know, it still maintains membership,  um,  you know, f-  for it to have existed for as long as it has,  um,  even with like how little,  um,  that it offers.
And, um,  I-  so I worked when I came back from school- I worked at the RD-WORK-1 in, um-  in their like, uh, childcare programming.
And,  um,  while I was there, there were talks of-  so it's k- the RD-WORK-6.
And there were talks of  putting that at  College Town.
And,  um,  th- it was very frustrating cause  like the reason that that  shitty RD-WORK-1 existed was   for the people in that neighborhood.
If it were moved to College Town, it would  not- you know, it wouldn't be for those neighbors.
It would be for these students who  are now coming and taking up space in this neighborhood.
Um, so that's like, you know, just one  of many things that I've noticed.
Um,  o-  our street,  um, because it is one of those like,  you know, safer feeling pockets, um,  I feel like we tend- and  w- we-  k- we have for years had  college students living,  um, on our street.
And,  you know, we have a neighbor across the street who passed away, and his house then became one of these  houses, um,  where college students live.
But, you know, it-  it j- um,    when those opportunities come, when a house opens up  that  is an oppontunity for a landlord to come in and-  and make money o-  um, you know,  off of that,  versus like families coming in and living there,  uh,  you know, for years.
Um,  So I see that a lot,  um,  but, you know, there's, um-  I don't know what it's called, but  over on Plymouth.
That was one of the ones that really  shocked me cause Plymouth is the hood, you know.
And a-  I remember,  you know,  on a daily basis driving,  um, through Plymouth,  and, um,  I was shocked to see-  cause I,  you know, assumed that  housing for the U of R  in that space  w-  would  probably be pretty white,  um,  and it's still shocking.
I- I have friends from like Harlem who talk about,  um,  seeing white people coming further and further into Harlem, and them just looking like, wow, you feel safe here?
And that's how I felt when I would see- like, seeing white people further down Plymouth.
Um,  I was like, what-  you know, like, what are you doing?
Like,  you know, you don't belong he- you know,  um,  Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I don't wanna live there, you know.
Yeah.
Drunk.
Yeah.
Targets.
Um,  yeah, and- and also- I also don't want it to come off  as me like-  li- as if I expect violence or certain things from  like my people and the people of the neighborhood,  um,  but I also can understand, um,  th- just the frustration felt  when you see your neighborhood being taken over  by outsiders.
And,  um,  like,  just like with Corn Hill, like  we weren't deserving of like  th-  th- beautiful space.
You know, like we're not deserving of  the things that you people with money, and like the U of R is like,  you know- just has  so much money.
Um,  i-  you know, um, so I-  I-  I get like the frustration behind, um,  seeing  your neighborhood  taken over, and  I know that frustration can  come out in a multitude of ways.
Especially,  you know, when I say targets, it's like,  well if you can afford to live in like,  you know, this expensive housing, like  you might  be someone that I want,  you know.
I-  I'm struggling,  you know.
Um, I think there's a lot of reasons why crime happens, um,    but, yeah.
So- so those are like some of the things, um,  that I've noticed and that- that-  that are frustrating.
Y- we had, um,  that Boulder that was in that like  the-  i-  the one side of the street that was like  big and beautiful, and like it was one of the best spaces that we had.
Um, our arts in Rochester are just like dwindling,  um, regularly.
And to have  that space that we had in Boulder like,  um, very beautiful space  that could offer like  doing shows.
I've s- I saw like a lot of really good hip hop shows.
Um,    and  th-  that  was  given to like a Jewish community center, and like  Boulder moved to l- a much smaller space that just really couldn't accommodate what  the other space had had.
Yeah.
It was b-  boarded up for years.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yeah Yeah.
And  even like it being owned by Boulder  isn't  ideal,  but just the idea of like,  not being able to have those spaces in our- in our places Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Mm.
Yeah.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Well and then you got the hospital, and you're already competing for a- a h- parking at the hospital.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,  uh, I don't know,  y-  you're a little bit younger than me.
Um,  b-  I don't know if you were around when like Java's  were ha-  was having the open mic nights.
Yeah.
Um,    that has always been like to me  one of  th- just like the epitome of  what I want to see, I guess, you know.
And that's what I want to see in black spaces.
Um, I loved  that.
It was, um-  they  had like the different aspects of hip hop.
So they  would have DJ,  um, like  you know, spinning music.
They would have emcees  like rhyming and rapping over,  um,  the music.
Then they had break dancers who like, in the summer, when it was outside,  brought their own linoleum, and like l-  laid it on the floor and were break dancing  to all of this stuff, like  and in the winter, they would continue it.
I-  I don't know if you have ever been in Java's,  um, downtown, but like  they have a tiny area where the bathroom is  and they would  do this like  in this very tiny space.
Breakers would be doing windmills when you're like, coming out of the bathroom door.
Like, it was amazing.
And, um,  you know, that  all fell apart, but like there was  such beautiful art scene.
Um,  I d- have never- you know, I don't write.
You know, I haven't g-  I've never gotten involved  in the arts, but like  y- there was even- you know, we could just come and enjoy it, and like  it- it was just a really beautiful thing.
And that's the thi- that's what I've always wanted  to like see in our spaces.
Like the places where we can be creative and like  share our arts, enjoy  our arts, you know.
And so that- that was what I like-  I felt that that Boulder had the potential for.
Um,  and, uh-  but yeah, I've never seen anything like that recreated  and- and just any-  you know, like  w-  like I said,  I feel like we're never good enough to have  those type of spaces created  in our-  in our homes, you know.
Yeah.
Y- you know, I, um,  y- I don't know if you know the radio station WAYO  that just, um, started.
It's a  local, so  it's a low frequency radio station.
It only has like a four mile radius or something like that.
Um,    I'm trying to steer away from one-o-four  cause I just get very frustrated,  um,  you know, the community station that plays like, horrendous music that is detrimental to the community,  and also like the critique of what's going on in the community is  really lacking.
Um, so,  um,  you know, I've been trying to like,  um, I-  you know, I have WAYO as like  the main radio station, my go-to  when I get in the car.
And, um, a friend of mine,  uh,  RD-NAME-3,  um,  he ra-  i- raps.
He's also a- a teacher, a- a educator in the school district.
And, um,  he was on,  uh,  one of the shows the other day.
And, um, so RD-NAME-2 is a little bit younger than me.
He's, I think, a year  behind me,  and,  um,  I'm thirty just for some context.
Um,   but, um,  so  he was around, you know, like, in the hip hop scene, um, when I was,  uh,  you know, when I was enjoying it, and,  um, you know, we were coming up around the same time.
And he was being interviewed by a y- a young  person  who is like  kind of  currently I think he's-  I think he was maybe twenty-two-ish.
Um,  and RD-NAME-2 asked that question.
Like w- you know, what was it like?
You know, for us, we-  we-  I feel like we had more spaces.
Um,  Dub Land Underground was a space where, um,  people, you know, in-  in the east end.
That shut down,  um,  and I think has reopened.
I don't know if it's the same or something else now.
But  he was asking like, what- where do you guys- where would you go?
And  so this y- this young guy was saying like, we had to go to open mics that were like  pretty much poetry open mics, and we had to like go and prove ourselves  there,  um,  not always successfully, were- weren't always accepted.
Um,  and, uh-  but like hopefully prove ourselves enough  that we could  maybe build an audience, maybe  try to use that space later on.
And the-  the guy didn't specify, but  d- honestly I don't really- I don't know.
I- I've seen, um, shows  recently at like California Brew Haus, which I think is out  like  Ridge area, um, like deep.
Um, s-  so,  you know, there's nothing  really,  um, there's not a lot going on,  um, within  the city, within like a,  um-  a g- definitely not within,  you know, black neighborhoods.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
So,  um,  there are  some  local like musicians, poets, um,  that I'm interested in.
And summers in Rochester like  kind of  can make you forget  when you hate Rochester, you know.
Um,  so there's like- yesterday, I don't know what it is.
There's that, um,  party in the park that's on Thursdays,  um, yeah.
So it's like in the MLK park now,  and, um,  it-  there was something in that same space yesterday.
Um, Suburban Plaza was playing,  um, and you know, like, Danielle Ponder, stuff like that.
So those are like things locally to look forward to.
Um,    and at the same time, it's like  there used to be, um,  you know, like  space for the up and coming.
And I don't- I don't what that space is.
But,  um,  what was I gonna say?
And I- I d- yeah, just like on a  outside of like music and stuff.
Oh, Tajze's is a place, um, you know, black owned, that does like open mic nights.
Um, and I know that they are like other- there are like comedy open mics that like Joelle James and Yolanda Smilez, Uncle Trent,  um,  are involved with.
Uh, but,  um,  I feel a little detached from like the black arts,  um,  you know, locally and- and where that is now.
D- w- can you think of any- Yeah.
Yeah.
Well yeah.
You made me think  of Rhino Stadium,  that they put that right in the hood.
Um, but  not for the people there.
Right.
You know, I went to,  um, I don't remember what that thing that  one-o-four would do, but, you know, big concert.
And for a while they were getting really good,  um, pretty decent acts.
And it would be like a two day, you know, like a f- all weekend thing.
And I went one year where the headliner was The Roots.
The Roots.
The Roots.
And I don't know if you noticed this- they were the headliner, so they were the last ones to go.
And,  um,  at,  um-  at one point, like maybe halfway through their set,  they opened up the gates,  and they were like,  w-  you know, whether you paid or not, you can come in.
Black people w-  were like  coming up  and like  turning away like, nah,  but that's not me,  like that's not my music.
And-  and like  choosing not to come into a-   a free Roots show like crazy.
Um,  so- I mean there's,  you know-  and that's an- a thing that frustrates me with one-o-four is like that we're pumping this like  bullshit,  um,  that  is like harmful  to us as a people.
Um, and then  w-  when like music  that  could be like inspirational and like,  uh,  you know positive f- and uplifting to us,  people don't even want it for free.
Like  it's crazy.
Yeah.
I will be attending that, um,  DMX, Uncle Luke,  Juvenile,  um,  which is like  the r- most ratchet  mu- but I mean  I love that shit.
And it's a problem.
You know, like, but at the same time, I also can be conscious like  this is  horrendous.
The message  i-  in this music is horrendous.
Um,  and I love  dancing to black music, especially music that I like grew up on.
Um,  but yeah, so I'm interested in seeing,  you know, what that crowd is looking like.
It- it's at Rhino Stadium.
Mm.
Oh, you think you're funny.
Um,  yeah and the other thing from what you were saying is, um,  you know, a lot of what we have  is  in the summer,  and, uh, it's like h- people kind of  hermit a little bit  in the colder  times.
And  another thing that c- I was thinking was, um, I went to Mendon Ponds today,  and  I- I play rugby, so I've been there to like  play rugby.
I've been there for picnics and stuff.
But I like actually went  in the trails around the pond, and it was beautiful.
And  we have so much beautiful green space  very close to us, and  even that is  somewhat inaccessible.
You know, like there's no buses  going  out to Mendon Ponds.
Um,  but yeah, you know, that was another thing that I was thinking about.
Yeah.
And time and yeah,  h- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, and even with  RD-NAME-3, he  I think  spends more outside time  than a lot of kids that I know, and still, you know, uh,  it's very different.
And- Yeah.
I also  see  his openness to things  dwindling.
You know, like,  his tastes  in food, and I feel like a lot of that is just like a lot of outside influence stuff, but I can't- you know, it happens.
What-  what's an example of our-  our bougieness?
Mm.
Mm.
Yeah.
Um,  I wanna make sure we don't  end this without me saying some things about  m-  this guy.
Um,  he, uh,  went to RD-SCHOOL-1 when RD-SCHOOL-1 was very white.
Um, so  when he was in that neighborhood it was very Italian.
A l- um, if you look at those yearbooks from like  back then,  he was  class president.
Um, Right?
School.
Excuse me.
Let me get that right.
Um, and also, um,  he's a drug and alcohol counselor,  and like has worked his way,  um, up in his position.
I gonna keep going if you're not gonna jump in.
Um, he, you know, like he, uh,  now runs drug court  in RD-WORK-1 County and RD-WORK-3 County.
But  I'm  gonna say- this is without a college education.
You know, has like worked his way up in these positions.
Yeah.
The neighborhood too.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, um, when I was in high school, um,  I've always hated school,  um,  it-  just the way that it's set up has never felt right to me.
Um,  w-  in the fourth grade, I had a truant officer  because I refused- so I- I was in-  this is also gonna be a very convoluted story, but, um,  so first, second, and third grade, I was in, um,  a program where we were,  you know I was with the same  group of kids for three years.
I had the same two teachers.
Um,  i- I don't know, it just felt more like family-like.
Um, I really liked the teacher- my main teacher that I had.
And, um,  you know, I- I liked  the- the kids that I was with.
I was kind of like a-  a little timid, and so I was able to like  grow and get to know these people.
And then  fourth grade,  it was a major shift for me.
And, um-  but it was one of those like  I didn't know p- everybody kept asking, like why won't you go to school?
Um, you know, I- I had to be dragged into school  on many occasions.
I would like lock myself in the bathroom.
Um,  and, you know, they both were working, so  they had to leave  and just leave me in there.
And so finally, like, you know, I ended up with a truant officer who was  ensuring that I w-  um,  you know,  was getting to school, and still  i- it was just the whole year was really a struggle.
And they kept asking, like what's going on?
And  I really didn't have words for it at that age.
Um,  but I mean, looking back, I just really don't  think that the way that schools  are operated really  has ever been my thing.
So  I d- start- you know, I started going to school, but,  um,  it's weird.
I- I know that I'm smart because  if I wasn't, I j- you know, like, the way that I am with school.
I, um- I hated doing homework.
So,  um,    just never really worked  that w-  well.
I would just kind of get by, um, where  if I would've ever applied myself, I-  I probably woulda been a really good student.
Um, but I just never wanted to.
Um,  so when I was in  high school, um,  I- I had always been  good at math,  um,  and  so I wanted to be a math teacher,  um,  you know, wanted to be able to teach  people in a way-  I felt like I was a different learner, so- and I felt like that would be beneficial for students.
And, um,  so-  so that was my plan.
Um, I went to my guidance counselor  and  he told me s-  profound advice.
He was like  j-  you know, just having  like known me, he was like, you'll like RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um,  so apply to RD-SCHOOL-2 and one other school  was the advice that he gave me.
Um,  so I applied to RD-SCHOOL-2 and Buff State.
Um,  I- i- I don't think that was really great advice, you know.
But-  but he was right.
He-  luckily he was right,  and he really- he helped me,  um, you know, with writing my,  my letter to get into RD-SCHOOL-2.
Um, but I mean, that was really like, what if I didn't?
You know, that woulda really sucked.
He only told me to  apply to two schools.
Um,  but yeah, luckily I did get into RD-SCHOOL-2, and he was very right.
Um, RD-SCHOOL-2 is a,  um,  i- has like this kind of hippyish vibe, very artsy.
Um,  and, uh, i-  like   I got involved with like activism  while I was there.
So when I first got there, um, you know, like I said, having come from this  somewhat of a color blindness, um,  being in Rochester and not really looking critically at some of the stuff that was going on,  um,  in my world.
Um,  I came intoRD-SCHOOL-2.
I- my parents made too much for me to be, um, EOP.
Um, but they have this program called RD-SCHOOL-10.
So it has the mentorship  aspect of EOP without any money.
Um,  so  they, um, would house RD-SCHOOL-3 students  in the two oldest dorms,  um,  on campus  which if you look at it, it's like put all the  people of color in like the two oldest dorms.
It l- can seem kind of bad, but those dorms had the most history,  um, and it was really beautiful, like  living in the space that  the white people wouldn't  necessarily flock to.
You know, there were like  two brand new dorms on campus where like a lot of,  you know, more well off students,  they would just pay the extra money to live in those two new dorms.
So it was really actually very nice.
Um,  you know, living with like black, Puerto Rican, Dominican, like  um-    and  in the basement of  the dorm that I lived in, the- the oldest one,    um,  there were like all these divine nine.
Um, you know, like y-  there was a lot of like  black history in- in that building.
And so  that was really awesome.
And, um,  so I lived,   um, there and  there were a couple  of- like there were some black studies classes that I had to take.
They were-  they were sp- specific to RD-SCHOOL-7,  but they were,  um,  through the black studies department.
So, um,  I ended up having like  a- a mentor, Dr.
RD-NAME-5, um,  was  my faculty mentor.
Um, and then I also was assigned a student mentor  who,  um-  she was on my soccer team in high school.
She saw my name on the list, and she was like, I want her.
So, um, that was really awesome.
This girl, uh,  RD-NAME-2 who I like knew from back home, so that was cool.
Um, and so I like had this like  kind of guidance,  um,  from these,  you know, two black women.
Um,  and I, um,  I feel like I  came in with this kind of like,  you know, like why-  not fully, but like kind of like, w- you know,  black studies, you know like just kind of a like,  I didn't totally buy in,  um, initially.
Um,  but then  being a part   of it,  and like taking these classes,  and like seeing just,  um,  again it felt like an- a family atmosphere.
And like  n- knowing the struggles that I had with school, you know, my- probably like my second week of college, I called him and  I was like,  I'm done.
I had talked to somebody, a teacher who used to be a dental hygienist, and I was like,  yeah I'm just gonna become a dental hygienist.
I'm just gonna go,  you know,  get certified or something.
And he was like,  no, you're not.
Um,  m-  you wouldn't go that.
It's gross.
You don't wanna be in people's mouths , like you're not gonna do it.
And I was like,  well, I can't do this school thing.
And he was like, well,  it's been two weeks, like you're gonna try.
And, um,  so I was like, okay, well I'll- I'll like  d-  do this semester, and it's gonna suck.
Um,  and, uh-  but like  b-  bu- you know, I would have those same conversations with people in the department.
And like, you know, RD-NAME-11 was just like, w-  um,  just a very loving and strong presence.
Um,  and so like,  that's- you know, I was getting support from  these people so  even though I didn't totally understand like, you know, why we needed  this department  yet,  um,  it was there for me,  and the people were there for me.
And, um-  and then I started taking, you know,  s-  classes that were specifically r-  related to black studies.
Um,  you know, one of the- a-  some of the more powerful ones for me were, um, like a race and racism class, um, education in the black community.
Um, you know, you asked about,  uh, integration earlier, and  I started like, looking at,  um,  our education  really  got worse with integration.
W- we used to be educated by our own people.
I had an ex-boyfriend who his mom,  um,  was educated in the South, and then their family moved up north, and,  um,  the expectations were so much higher  on-  on-  w- you know, when a- a black,  uh, educator's expectations on a black student is much higher than somebody who  m-  may have like  preconceived notions about this child already, and like  doesn't live in the area where this child is growing up, has  preconceived notions about the area that they live in, a- and like what this child can actually accomplish.
So like just being able to look at these things-  all these things that like,  you know, they had been kind of on the peripheral to me growing up,  were starting to like, make more sense.
And I started to get angry,  um, and like,  you know, just like  pissed off that I-  with myself for like not having noticed a lot of these things,  and a-  also pissed off that this information was kept fr- from me  for all this time.
Cause I'm in school for  twelve years  and  they left all of this out.
I was like, really  pissed off.
Um,  so I bounced around from different majors.
Um,  I, uh,  you know, taking calculus my first semester  and hating school.
Um, I had gotten by because like teachers liked me,    and  saw my potential.
They knew that I got the information.
Um,  so I- I g- I got a lot of help, um, along the way.
But in college nobody's gonna do that.
Um, you need to do a lot of work outside the classroom.
And like  pretty much all the work I was doing was in the classroom,  um,  you know, during my lower schooling.
So, um,  I, uh,  I- yeah, I struggled,  um,  that-  that first se- I mean I struggled pretty much throughout the entire time,  but  when I finally found black studies as like the major that I wanted to do,  um,  th- there wa- i- was still some struggle  because I still had to put in the work.
Um,  but it was like something that I actually cared about.
Finally like I had found something that like  I had a passion for.
Um,  so that definitely helped.
Um,  so  that's kind of like what led me to black studies.
Um,  I, uh- I also d- had a- a minor in women's studies.
Um,  and even that,  um,  you know, I had more  of an interest in that, and it kind of  w- the more I was seeing with black studies the-  you know, I was leaning more toward that and having some criticisms to like  d-  uh,  women's studies and  m- feminism and  the lack of the black voice in those realms.
Um,  so,   um,    I   have alw- you know, I had like started babysitting  y- at yo- like teenager, you know, like  I think is pretty normal.
Um, but I've always like worked  with kids,  and so when I came back home  with a black studies degree and not really  knowing how to like sell myself  and,  um,  I-  you know, I worked at the RD-WORK-1.
I was  getting into like  kind of childcare positions again.
So  m- jobs that I've had since then, I- I worked at the  RD-WORK-6.
Um,  I  taught nutrition classes, uh, through the RD-WORK-8.
Um, and that was a job I really loved.
And, um,  a-  i-  so  that job,  getting that- that position, it came down to me and one other person.
Um,  it was a lot of white women  in that position, like, um, state  wide, and just like a lot of white-  white women who were- who were doing that job.
And, um,  so it came down to me and a white  male,  um, for the position  and,  you know, talking to them afterward, their logic was,  you know,  both of them are minorities in this  position.
Um,  you know, having a guy is-  there's not many at all,  and there's not a lot of black women  either.
Um, so that I think is kind of what-  you know  we both were generally qualified,  um,  but th- they didn't really know how to decide, and they did like a second round, um,  like these questions that we needed to answer.
Uh, my mom   has worked at RD-WORK-1,  um,  you know, like she worked there- yeah?
Yeah, probably.
Um,  and so like I grew up,  um-  she's  r- just r- like connected to a lot of people.
Both of them are,  you know, so like  I kind of was able to use the connections that I've made,  um,  in my time, whether through myself or like through  well my parents and people I've met along the way.
So like, and that was one of the- the big things that, you know, like they asked about,  um,  you know,  com- people in the community that we're familiar with, and like my list was just ridiculous.
And  so I ended up getting the position, um,  and it was like grant funded.
And, um-  but then like a few months later, they hired  the guy that  didn't get the position.
Um,  and the following year we both got laid off cause they didn't have money for us.
And it's like,  why the fuck did you hire this guy?
You know, like yeah it was  one of those like, alright okay.
But, um,   and I'm l- yeah, I really loved that job.
Um,  h- a-  in it, I was able to like go into, um- so we worked with people who were on public assistance  s- and, um,  did like an eight week series  on like how to better- so I was able to like tailor my lessons  for the groups that I was working with.
Um, you know, if there- it was like ha- a lot of diabetes, we would like focus on sugars, and you know, like-  but  that was really nice to be able to offer this program,  um,  and like,  you know, hopefully  have people make small changes,  um, to help their health.
So I really liked doing that.
Um, I ended up,  um, on unemployment for a while, and that was really awesome,  um,  cause I wasn't paying rent.
You know, living with my parents  and getting all this free money.
Um,  so from there  I, um-  I knew a woman and- and her daughter th- um, her daughter  a- uh, has cerebral palsy,  and she was looking for someone to work on some life skills  with her daughter.
And so,  um,  she  was involved with, um,  RD-WORK-2 Rochester, RD-WORK-5 Rochester, but it,  um-  the agency itself  works with people with, uh, s- you know, all,  um,  different developmental disabilities.
And, um,  so I came initially just planning on working with this girl, um, to make a little  bit of money, and,  um,  they told me about another program that they had.
So I ended up working at RD-WORK-2 Rochester for, um,  two or three years,  um,  and that was, um-  you know, I had never worked with  people with like,  you know, different-  different abilities, um,  in that-  to that degree.
I was doing a lot of like self care, like, um,  uh,  like having to  like wipe  people and shower them and-  and  never saw myself doing that.
Um,  and it really wasn't, you know- my job was,  um,  to help them with life skills  but also like,  you know,  they can't do this themselves so,  you know, I was doing some  caretaking too.
But, um,  that was like really  eye-opening for me,  uh,  cause like I said, like  I'd-  I have always felt like a different learner,  and  I know this is like-  working with them was to a more severe degree.
Like some of them couldn't speak at all, and so like  having to find other ways to communicate with them, whether it's like, you know,  touching with their hands, or, um,  you know, like,  um, that was really awesome.
And I-  and I-  I felt like I could really relate to them,  um, in ways that other people  really like detached themselves like  that feel very different.
Um,  I felt like I could like,  you know, I- I could relate to them,  um,  because  d-  d-  despite like  ho- you know, like how different  their abilities are from mine,  I can relate to just like not-  not f- quite getting it, you know, and like needing some other form of- uh,  of education and care and stuff.
So that was really awesome in that  I feel like I've like taken a lot of those skills in like  other educational capacities that I've worked in.
Um, so,  um,  from RD-WORK-2 Rochester, I started working at the RD-WORK-4.
There I was working with, um,  young moms, so sixteen to twenty-one year old, um, either pregnant  or parenting, uh, homeless  young women.
And, um, it was a residential setting, so  we had  eight beds,  and  you could either come  pregnant  or  ha-  like having children already.
And like all of these  girls and children living in a house together,  it was crazy.
Um,  h- and I was a life skills, uh- like I worked on life skills with them.
So,  um, helping them find housing, employment, like working on employ-  employability skills and stuff.
Um, and  I feel like the biggest part of my job was like w-  working on like  relationship  skills with other human beings, not just like intimate relationships but  like  living with  all these other  hormonal  teen girls,  um, and like not  fighting each other.
One of the biggest like w-  an example that I use of a success story in that job is like  we had this one girl who,  um,  was  a hot head,  and, um,  she had a daughter who was like under a year old,  and she was having issues with one of the girls who was pregnant.
And, um,  it looked like they were going to get into a fight.
She had her daughter  like in her arms,  and  she's like having a disagreement with a  pregnant girl.
And it looked like they were about to fight.
So someone came and did take  her daughter out of her arms.
Um,  and instead of  punching this girl in the face, she punched  the refrigerator.
And like in the past that wouldn't have happened.
Uh, you know, like  she had been at our program for,  you know, like eight months or something at that time.
And like, you know,  when I say this to other people, it's like,  let's  still so- she- you know, she broke her hand when she  punched the refrigerator.
Um,  but like  for her that was  big.
You know, like she  could've had herself arrested.
She could've lost her child.
You know, like,  um,  from the consequences  of her actions and  i-  little things like that, I- I have learned to see as progress.
And the same thing when I was working with people with, um,  developmental disabilities.
Um,  you know, progress comes in all  shapes and forms, and  I've learned to like not  expect so much.
Um, so from that job, from the RD-WORK-4.
I- I'm in my current position.
So I work at a birth-  for a birth control clinic, and I do sexual and reproductive  health education.
So I give the whole gamut because it really doesn't,  you know, some p- it doesn't look like  the same thing.
And the constant for me,  um, is  being able to-  to educate people.
Like I, um-  it looks very different in different positions, and I don't know like what,  you know, the end goal for me  is gonna be.
And like  I- I really can't see  how to make all of this experience  like into a certain position.
Um,  but I- I like to  be able to educate people, um, i-  and  expand people's,  um,  understanding of things that they may not have access to.
Like just like for me,  I was very frustrated  to get this education that  I had never had access to, and so I- I try to like make the access  in the positions that I hold,  um,  you know, like  greater.
Cause I- I feel like esp- you know, when I was doing that RD-WORK-2 Rochester job,  there are a lot of people who were l-  who just kind of looked at  these people like-  like there's no h- hope.
You know, like  this is just  their life, and,  you know, I wouldn't want somebody- I wouldn't want that  to be it for me, so  that's what I- that's what I try to do.
So in my current position, um, I really-  I have a lot of fun, um,  it's- some people get really uncomfortable with like the whole, you know talking about sex.
For me,  I like to be able to normalize things that seem very taboo,  uh, to people.
That's-  that's been really awesome for me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, my mom is from Jersey,  um, and, uh,  I think  both of tho- like we have-  it's more subtle.
But definitely like, when I went,  um,  to school, so RD-SCHOOL-2 is like between Albany and New York City,  um,  so a lot of people from New York City were there and  everybody kept saying we sound country.
Um, got that a lot.
Um,  and, uh-  and definitely like the words that we use also, um, r-  were-  were just  different.
It- I think they make  more sense, like,  um,  a lot of my friends, you know, we say slapping somebody up.
You know,  and they would say pounds.
And so  at first they were like,   nah, you know, like just because they were used to what they were used to,  but when I explained it like you're slapping hands, you know, l- they're like, dang that does make more sense.
You know, like, stuff like-  You know, i- the, um- the edge up and the line up, you know, um, all that stuff, uh,  you know, when w-  when I would explain like what was behind it,  it was always like, yeah th-   still- I'm still gonna say this, you know, but-  Um, but yeah.
But yes, definitely, um,  for the accent  it-  b-  but yes, I definitely think I- I go blind to- you know,  sound-blind  deaf to it.
Yeah I don't know, but, um- but I hear from other people that they hear-  I was in California.
I was in San Diego, and I was telling a story,   and I said cop,  and  I don't know how I said it, but  y-  you know, I was like, yeah and the cops- you know, and th-  th- these like cops came or something like that.
And this girl was like,  with the caps.
Like, you know, and I'm like what, I did not say that.
But like that's what they heard.
They heard- you know, like they heard that  kind of  twang to it.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Okay