Okay.
Yep.
I consent.
Um,  I was born and raised in Rochester.
Um.
My  mother  emigrated here from Tallahassee, Florida.
My father  from Hazlehurst, Mississippi.
Uh, he came here for Kodak, she came here for the U of R.
They met in church.
Um.
We-  when I was  born, they- we were living in Henrietta.
And then by second grade, we moved to Pittsford.
They're still in that same house in Pittsford.
So,  I did   Pittsford schools from second grade  on.
Um,  and then,  went to U of R.
And then after U of R  ended up in Baltimore for eight years, and now I'm back.
I am,  yes.
Um,  my  m- m- for my street, we were the first family living on our street.
Um,  and for a very long time-   Okay, dark blue.
Uh, for a very long time, we were the only African American family.
Um,  around middle school,  was a second m-  African American family.
But we- that was about it.
Um, the rest of the street was predominantly white.
I think there was one,  um, South Asian family.
Um,  my m- one of my mother's best friends actually had a house  in a development across the  major thoroughfare.
So,  even though we were close to friends,  you know, between our two neighborhoods, we were pretty much it.
Um.
I think to put things in perspective, my graduating class was two-o-six.
I was one of six African Americans and I was one of two that actually lived in Pittsford.
Um, the other four were urban suburban.
So,  it was predominantly white.
Uh.
And it was just one of those things where  kid didn't really notice until,  either A, he went to go hang out with  uh, family.
Or B,  as I got older and older and older, and closer to high school and closer to graduation, you started to realize that,  maybe this isn't the norm.
So,  and then  became blatantly obvious  With, you know, after going to some courses in college  Yeah.
Yeah.
It's okay.
Um.
My  fam- my  extended family's quite massive.
My mother is one of eleven, my father's one of thirteen.
Um.
The-  most of my father's family lives in Gary, Indiana, if not Mississippi.
Um, so there's a lot of Midwest and then Southern influence upon their speech.
My mother's family's predominantly in Florida,  but then she has  half her family's in Florida.
The other half is actually  uh, grew up near Katy Street and then out in Gates.
So,  M- we're not too far from  my grandfather's house.
Um.
So, seeing them was always  birthdays, holidays, that type of thing.
But day to day interaction?
No.
But, yeah.
So there's a  rather extensive.
Cause I think mom's the second oldest and dad's the second youngest.
So, my oldest first cousin's sixty-four.
and my youngest first cousin's  I think turning ten this year.
So, no, excuse me.
He'll be seventy-four.
Cause I know there's a sixty year- sixty  four year gap between the two.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
You wanna play something different?
Okay.
I'll get you out of this.
Here.
Pick something.
That doesn't have a lock on it.
So, i-  If you see these locks,  you can't open it.
But if you-  you can do the matching game.
So, you keep hitting on them until you get two that stick.
Okay?
So, you were asking, um,  in terms of, I've lost my train of thought with her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, nine times out of ten, I was the only African American student  or participant.
So, I did boy scouts A- I can't think of another  African American.
Although, one of my best friends was Puerto Rican, and  of course, he was the only Puerto Rican.
So the n- \  yeah.
Um, no.
I did sports in middle school, and then I focused mostly on academics by the time I got to high school.
So, I was in a lot of clubs.
Um.
Model UN.
Um.
Students Against Drunk Driving, student government, art club, drama club.
Th- um.
So, just a lot of different clubs.
And then,  at U of R, I p- did uh, three years of rugby.
Yeah.
Bless you.
Uh, history.
Secondary, Um.
E-  European history, post eighteen-fifty  was my major.
Yeah.
Um, originally I was a psych major, and I though I was gonna become a lawyer.
And, so I figured,  Um,  psychology, poli-sci, or history.
And then, I went for the legal certificate, and,  one, there was a logic class that was like eight o'clock in the morning and I was a senior.
And, I was like, I'm not prepped to do this yet.
And, so because I wasn't used to getting up, I mean I could do the work, but I wasn't getting the attendance grade and that was like half the grade.
So, I was like, alright.
I gotta drop this course because I can't make up those points.
So, I dropped the course.
And that was one course keeping from the legal certificate.
But-  and then,  I was offered the opportunity for, um,    the  the extended warrant program.
And, for the free masters, and I was like,  I don't know what I'm doing with my life.
This seems like something interesting.
And then I did that, and I loved it and I was like, yeah, let's- let's  let's move forward.
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, I find that my experience, especially as a student of color was different than others.
Um, I walked in.
For move in day, I did the ECO program, so I knew  fifty kids through the ECO program.
And then,  there was something like, it was one of those random years where like twenty-four kids  from my high school and our sister high school  went.
So, there was roughly about seventy-five people I walked in, day one knowing.
Um, and because  I wasn't,  you know, the stereotypical, from New York City, only New York City kind of guy,  um,  I've had uh, a- a vast  uh, network of friends.
And so, because of that,  I didn't really lean on ohms as much as some students  did.
I didn't,  you know,  I attended  the black student union events, but I didn't join  Oh.
T-  You, are trying to unlock  daddy's phone.
Kay.
I don't know how you locked  it.
Kay.
Try again.
So,  Um.
I,  yeah, my experience was a little bit different.
Um.
I mean, it was one of those where I could step back, and I knew this- noticed there was the  quote unquote black table.
Um,  or, I could notice there was the football table because my table was extremely diverse.
Um.
By my senior year,  um,  there was about six guys that were African American that I would consider like almost family.
We were close enough with.
But, then I had  uh, my rugby teammates.
And then I had,  a collection of friends that would join me for lunch everyday at the coffee shop.
And we just sort of had this  mentality of, we don't care who you are as long as you add to the conversation.
So,  Um.
Our  friendships and interactions were very diverse.
So,  like I said, it wasn't-  we didn't shelter ourselves.
Correct.
Yes.
I am teaching tenth gr- I'll be starting teaching tenth grade global studies  at RD-WORK-8 Um,  I did eight years of teaching,  originally,  tenth grade.
Then they moved it to ninth grade American government.
And then, I was teaching AP Government.
Um.
Last year, I was teaching  ninth grade global studies, and then t-  tenth grade AP world.
So,  both being social studies for the past- this is year  ten.
No, I just finished year ten.
This is year eleven.
Yeah.
Yes.
I have one half brother.
Um.
He's six years older than me from my father's first marriage.
Um,  strangely enough, even though we both grew up in different households,  uh, he is in education like me.
Um,  his interests mirror mine.
So,  the two of us,  um,  If you put us side by side, one, you wouldn't really tell that we're brothers.
Except maybe in the eyes.
Uh.
He's six foot four.
And about,  a hundred n  seventy pounds.
Where as,  I'm five seven  and two hundred.
So,  I'm short and stout.
He's tall and lean.
Um.
But like comic books, we love both like sci-fi, we both like technology.
Um.
Where I went towards the humanities, he went to the sciences, so he's into computers.
Uh, we both like comic books, but I'm a DC guy, he's a Marvel guy.
Um.
In public settings, I'm a little more outgoing an- and  loud.
In comparison to him, he's a little bit more demure.
Little bit more  soft spoken.
Um.
But, our interactions mirror each other.
RD-NAME-1, can I see that please?
You don't need the ESPN app.
Thank you.
So,  RD-NAME-2, if you keep it on silent  you can watch this.
Youtube for kids.
So, It's, it's edited so that all the Ya- you can set it to different  age groups.
So, like you can do up til five years old, and then five to twelve,  but the cut off is what a twelve year old would watch.
So,  I mean, it's all cartoons and   Mm-hm.
M- right.
Um.
What I've noticed in major difference of Pittsford an- and  let's say Pittsford, Victor, and Brighton.
Cause that's currently sort of where the standing line is.
And even Honeyway a little bit.
Um.
There's a very strong,  but  quiet  community control.
You,  your zoning,  is very specific.
And- and if you don't live there, you don't really notice it.
But there's a lot of money and a lot of power, and a lot of influence upon  making those  places look  a specific  way.