Oh, okay.
Um,    So, but in, in terms like the impact on the students,  um,  I- Pittsford work  cr- has created almost a bubble.
Where,  you'll have kids who've traveled all of the world who go to these schools.
But, have no concept of diversity.
They have no concept of  Uh, uh, of-  of struggling.
Um,  or what, what real struggling might look like.
And, so,  their opinions of the world become very solidified, very quickly.
Um,  supported by th-  uh,  a gilded cage if you will.
Um,  and so,  their  interactions and the way they handle themselves, then propagates the same mentality that the town has,  which is what they want.
Whereas,  like, if you, if you talk to somebody,  um,  from Pittsford or even  at Honeyway.
Two years ago, I had the chance to long term sub for them when I moved back to town.
And, it was about three weeks after,  it was three weeks before  the Baltimore riots occurred.
Now, to put things in perspective, where Freddie Gray was arrested was about eight blocks south of the school that I was teaching at.
And, where the riots broke out that Monday, was about  my school was two blocks, no.
three blocks south.
So, you talk about  about a ten block stretch  less than three miles  where all this chaos is, and there's  three major high schools  in that area.
And a m-  little mall.
Um.
And,  I was teaching AP government to a bunch of kids at Honeyway, and I had to explain to them, like,  Why is this happening?
Like, what does it take for a kid in Baltimore to go to high school?
Like,  what are the struggles that they may face?
And, for a lot of them,  this was  these are challenges that they don't even think about.
I was like, alright.
You wake up at seven AM, even though school starts at seven fifteen because  your alarm didn't go off, because your power went out, because  m- mom didn't have enough money to pay the bill.
So, now you're late getting to school.
And, now you have to catch buses, which may take you anywhere from forty-five minutes to an hour to get to school.
Or, you're walking, but if you walk, you're going through dangerous neighborhoods.
Um.
That type of reality, that type of experience  again,  that gilded cage they were sheltered from.
So,  places like Pittsford,  like Brighton, they work very hard to  k-  T- to  by, like I said, to create that cage.
A- because they want to protect their children, like anybody does, but it has its  social impact as well.
Whereas, I think  places like Greece, like Gates, a little more honest about what the world is doing and like, what's going on, and they're a little more open to it.
Because, one, they have to be  and- and,  two,  I think they're just  they don't care as much.
So  That's,  that was my upbringing.
Realizing Pittsford's a lovely place to live  but sometimes, it's difficult to  bond with people.
Um.
What I've noticed  is  So I'll hit it from different perspectives, in-  in coming back, what I've noticed in terms of-  of  government spending and the government handling  um, especially in the counties.
Two winters ago,  we had one of the worst winters we've had in a long time.
But, we also had the ice storm.
and, when I was a kid in ninety-one, and we went through the ice storm, no one ever was concerned about running out of salt.
You know, the idea that,  that snow removal, was not  an  issue.
We were, we were b- ha- prepared to handle that.
Um.
But,  two years ago, and then this past year, which was a very light winter,  there was still concern that we may not be able to move  remove snow.
I'm thinking w- the area that we're living in, how is our- our sp- what is going on with our government spending that  something as crucial as snow removal  for us to be functioning for a good, especially from say, late January into early March.
N- That shouldn't be a negotiation.
That should be handled.
Um,  and the fact that, that was, tells me that  the handling of- of  local politics has has gotten very dicey.
Um, very combative and I think it's a microcosm of what's going on at the national level.
Where both sides would be able to compromise to say, alright  you know what?
I don't like you, you don't like me, but we need money for this  to pay for it.
Where now, it's  well, I don't like you, you don't like me, so we're just gonna let this-  don't touch that.
We're just gonna let things  go.
Um.
I think, from a, from a social perspective,  I've noticed there's been a lot of.
There's a l- a great more diversity, especially on the westside, because  you have  um.
What you have is  capable people of color  who  are tired of a city.
Whatever their reason may be.
Who have jobs that are giving them enough wealth to move out.
W- and they're, but,  because of property taxes, because of the way the  eastside has set itself up,  they're pushing north, and they're pushing west.
So, they're moving into Gates, they're moving into Greece, they're moving into Irondequoit.
Which, is gen- changing  the demographics of these areas, which is then making them start to ask questions  they didn't have to ask.
The fact that Spencerport was trying to deal with urban suburban  um, commuting,  um,  you know, last year.
I was like, that's amazing, but  the other part that  that cracks me up about that is  you're arguing over urban, suburban.
And not because  of the issue of  the impact that it's gonna have on the diversity of your community.
The- but I mean, that was they were arguing over.
The only argum-  The only justifiable point you have against urban suburban in Spencerport is,  do you really wanna  change the kids lives that much, that you have to pull that-  Like, getting to Spencerport from the city is not an easy haul.
And, I'm like,  you're gonna be telling kids, you need to get up at five  maybe four-thirty in the morning to catch a bus to get to school on time.
I said,  in my mind, that's the problem.
Because of the impact that it has on the student.
But, the diversity of the impact it'll have on, on your kids, the social growth they'll have is exponential, so who cares about that?
But, people were,  uh, the dark side of their prejudices were coming out.
An- and  that's a- another thing that I've noticed.
From a social perspective,    and, maybe I'm just more aware of it because I'm older.
RD-NAME-2 can you turn down my phone please?
Um.
but,  prejudices  that I'd been taught existed,  as I've gotten older, I've learned to recognize them.
Um.
It always reminds me of a- of a  I think it was Chris Rock or Dave Chappelle made a- some skit about, you ever see something so racist  where you just stop and you go, wow.
That was really racist.
Like, you didn't get- m- you didn't get mad, you didn't get upset.
You were just blown away by just  how racist it was.
And, I've had like  reflecting upon my childhood and I'm like, I've had a couple of those experiences, but I just didn't realize  what it was because it wasn't the- the stereotypical  guy in a white sheet or the, the burning cross, or the lyn-  like it wasn't that, but it was um,  a systematic undertone of how somebody treated somebody else or treated me, or said something to me.
Um.
That  now that I'm older, I can recognize that.
Which helps me  gauge my response a little bit better.
Turn it down.
Um.
I think the  m-.
One example that really stood out to me was,  think it was my  ch- sophomore, junior year of college.
And it was  spring semester.
And  I was running an errand for my mother on the way back to campus.
So, I stop by her house in the morning, have breakfast, hang out, see how she's doing.
And, she's like, can you  uh, pay this bill for me  at  Macy's or Bon-ton, whatever.
One of them.
I was like, yeah, yeah.
No problem mom, it's  it's on the way back to campus.
So, she gives me the money, she gives me her bill,  and I run over there  and I go to pay the bill.
And,  this woman, she's standing behind me and she's in a,  you can tell it's a high end  designer coat.
Um.
And I just go through the process, you know.
M-  I need to pay this bill for my mother.
Thank you.
And I'm so- and then this woman stops me eh- whe-  So, I'm about to walk and she stops me, goes you are just so  articulate.
Where are you from?
And at that- and I was a little bit older at that point when I realized,  why are you stopping me?
Why does my ability to speak matter to you?
And, I realized because  she had prejudice an- on thinking about African Americans  speak.
And I said, well oh I'm from Pittsford.
She goes, oh.
And the conversations stop because the moment I said Pittsford, she was like, oh.
You're a good one.
And- And it was just like, wow.
You just.
Like,  Her- her- her misconception was just so heavy.
I was like, you know what, I don't even have time.
To- to deconstruct  how off  you were, cause you thought that you were complimenting me.
And I get that.
And, you're coming from a place of- of  ignorance cause you don't know,  and not stupidity, where you do know, but you  choose to ignore.
Um.
And, I think those two differences  matter greatly.
I think there's a lot more stupidity out there nowadays.
And, when I was a child, there was a lot more ignorance.
Um,  in terms of an economic status,  uh,  what you notice is certain towns  are sort of  economically flat.
And, especially- and the city's  struggling with that, and has been for a while.
But they were able to keep it kind of quiet.
And then, the past ten or fifteen years, it's- it's now to point where  you can't anymore.
Because,  when I was a kid,  Edison was com- was competitive, Wilson was competitive.
Um.
You didn't question their graduation rates.
You were like, yeah, it's the city,  but those are schools that can perform.
So, everyone just said, yeah, there's issues going on in the city, but the kids are performing.
The moment  No Child Left Behind hits, and then Race to the Top hits, and Regents  adjustments hits, and graduation rates start dropping,  and then, all of a sudden, people are like, well what's going on with these crime rates?
Um.
You begin to realize  well, wait a minute.
The school's, the city school district's not performing.
What's going on?
And, that,  one,  becomes  the headline for the local news on a regular basis.
Two,  becomes sort of a self fulfilling prophecy.
Uh, for those outside of the city who don't experience the city, they're like, well, the city's just  messed over anyways because look at the schools.
Um.
Three, it puts them in a situation where  um,  now, they feel  bad about themselves,  and so, they don't think they can achieve.
So, the city doesn't grow from that perspective.
Uh.
Four,  then, the programs that you try to put into the city is  you know.
It's- it's, uh, now  you're- it's bigger gamble than it's ever been.
Cause now, who's the house that wins?
Like,  it's not like government officials are-  are gambling on this, and they come out profiting on the back end.
They're losing money too.
And then, five, city policing  compared to- to local policing.
Um.
When I was a kid, you  you know, you had-  before Duffy, you were talking about people-  partners, walking the streets.
Now it's partners in cars.
Now it's individual cars.
Now it's  Well, we have these quadrants.
Well, these quadrants turn into these sectors.
And,  well, are you actually getting to know the neighborhoods?
No.
An-  And all of a sudden, it's this bust after this bust, after this bust.
And like,  the language and the way you- you handle people in the city  is different  than  you used to.
So, what caused that shift?
Which then feeds into the surrounding suburbs because  maybe it's just again because I'm older, there's a little bit, there's like  civility.
But, it's like aggressive civility.
I think is the way to-  that's a nice way of describing it.
Where it's like,  what are you doing here?
Oh, okay, well just so you know,  you know, you- you have to leave in the next five minutes.
Oh, okay.
I understand, but.
And so,  I can't tell  so much  in terms of social hem- is it that I'm noticing it more  because I'm older?
Or because  we're in a day and age where  emotions are heightened, things are being filmed  and, people are  okay with openly reacting  and not being polite about it?
And, everyone's sort of  walking on ice now  with how they handle all of that.
So,  that- that's what I see, like, what's going on in Rochester.
Um.
It's funny.
Uh,  the things that I- when th- when you started asking me the question, there was a couple of things that immediately come to mind.
Like,  hiking with my children at Mendon Ponds Park, or attending the Cornhill  Arts Festival.
Um.
Or going to Canandaigua Lake.
But then I realized, like  most of the things I like doing in Rochester are not  in the city of Rochester.
Um.
Which then makes me think of a, there was an editorial piece written a couple of years ago in the DNC  called The Tale of Two Cities.
Talking about how  What's going on in the city and what's going on in the suburbs are two very different things, and,  The way we've structured ourselves works very well  to keep  um,  those two things separate.
Um,  so,  you know, I enjoy going up to Hamlin Beach.
I didn't start going to Charlotte until I met my wife in G-  Who's from Greece.
Um.
I enjoy Mendon Ponds Park, Powder Mill Park, which are both in Pittsford.
Um.
Letchworth State Park.
A lot of state parks, because, you know,  I was a boy scout.
Camping, hiking, that type of thing.
Um,  I like  S- the South Wedge.
Hanging out in like, the Park Ave.
area.
There's a lot of cool shops and walking, and  things like that.
I like events around the U of R.
Or, at the U of R.
Um.
But in terms of, do I actually like, go into the city,  I think I can count the number of times I've gone into the city to go see a show or an event.
Um.
And it's-  It's just one of those things where  like, I do cherish it and it makes  Rochester a great place to live,  but at the same time, you just  it-  I'm- I've very much become one of those individuals who can just pop in, do what I need to do and just pop out.
Um.
Which is actually very in- indicative of  people in Baltimore.
Um.
What a lot of people don't realize is  one of Baltimore's major landmarks is Camden Yards, the Orioles, where they play.
You can get on a train,  um,  outside the city limits.
You're pretty much  almost,  you're about thirty minutes from the  the Pennsylvania state line.
If that.
You can get on a train there.
Where there's a Wegmans  Take that train in for thirty minutes, be dropped off right in front of the stadium  do whatever you want around the stadium.
Go to the- the pubs, go and watch the game, whatever.
And then hop  back on that train, and head back out.
You don't have to drive, you don't have to park, you don't have to vest  any extra effort into the city than you were willing to.
Um,  which allows you to enjoy all  parts of the city  while ignoring  other issues of it.
Um.
And Rochester sort of does the same thing, but we do it with cars.
You want to go to a Redwings game?
You can hop off the expressway and literally drop right next to the stadium without going through the city.
Especially if you're coming from the westside versus the eastside.
Um.
You wanna go to the major library  right off of the expressway, but you don't have to go into the heart of the city.
Um.
I didn't have to know where Liberty Pool Way was  until college.
You know.
And the- the hip  co- cool thing if you were, you know, a, uh,  bohemian student, if you will.
wants to go to Spot Cafe.
So, if you're if you're   You know.
Oh.
You're- you're- you're trapped in Pittsford, but you got a friend with a car.
Well, I like to hang out at Spot Cafe on a Friday night.
Well, so does everybody.
That place is teeming  with teenagers because  they're trying to be cool and get into the city.
But not really into the city because  you know,  stuff can get scary   Um.
But yeah.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
But it's- it's if you look at where it is, you're not too far from an expressway, so you can  hop into the city, park,  be cool,  and then hop out.
And you're like, oh, I'm meeting all these different pe- kids from all these different places, but are you really?
You're around them, but you're not really meeting them.
Hi Sugar Plum.
You want a hug?
You just wanna play.
Guess you wanna play.
But, yeah.
Okay.
So,  I've been told,  one, I don't have the Rochester accent.
And two, an- and  it was been told by friends of mine from high school  when we were in college.
Because at that point, a couple of them gone to New York City, Midwest, and then we came back around the holidays.
And,  You know, I don't say the hard O,  where it's more of like, an A.
Um.
So, y- you- so, the classic way to understand if someone has the Rochester accent is, how do they say Rochester?
I  don't say ra.
And, so I don't say it like R A W chester, I say Rochester.
It's almost like,  R-O-U-G-H  chester.
Um.
And I don't.
And, I say Rochester.
And I to the, chester, faster than people who are from Rochester, usually say Raw-chester  So, emphasis on the first syllable and less upon the second syllable.
I jump to the,  almost to the second syllable with the way I say it.
Um.
And, so I'm aware that I- I have that accent.
Um.
I know that the Rochester accent is very strongly influenced by the Midwestern accents.
Especially from  Northern P-A and Ohio.
I know a lot of that has a lot of influence.
Um.
When I moved to Baltimore,  it was very interesting.
Because I grew up in Pittsford, went to the U of R  and then, all of a sudden, I'm teaching in an urban district.
We okay down here?
Okay.
And,  for the first time in my life, students ask me, what are you?
Like, what do you mean, what am I?
Because for them, I wasn't black.
I didn't sound quote unquote black.