RD-NAME-8 RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-2  RD-NAME-1  RD-NAME-2 My birthday is August eleventh   Ninteen    Nineteen sixty nine.
I would be fired.
Goodness.
Have to make a joke out of it.
I was born, in Miami Florida.
In nineteen sixty nine.
The neighborhood right here on the West Side, Valdosta, Georgia.
RD-ADDRESS-4 Street.
As a child?
Oh, certainly.
Melbourne, Florida, Valdosta, Georgia.
Not live, live.
No that's about it.
High school?
Valdosta, Georgia.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Um,  does it matter what year?
Okay well, RD-SCHOOL-4 I did not.
Uh, RD-SCHOOL-2 That is correct.
Oh what- They've changed the name of it.
I forgot now.
It's a four year institution.
Uh, in Melbourne, Florida.
Mm-hm.
I'm an educator.
At RD-SCHOOL-3 At RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
Valdosta.
Oh subject matter, oh I'm so sorry.
English language arts.
I do not know.
I am not sure.
We didn't talk about those things.
We don't ask questions like that.
And we didn't ask questions like that.
Uh, he was in the military.
And he now works as a contractor for the military.
In the safety department.
But exactly what he does, I am not sure.
She worked at a hospital.
She did.
She gave me a look.
She worked in food services.
All your life.
You're typing what I'm saying?
Oh, so you weren't even engaging in the conversation?
That is sad.
Yes.
Wait, maybe not.
You know- I don't know.
We didn't ask those questions remember?
Mm-hm.
Miami, Florida.
Miami, Florida.
RD-NAME-2, I do not know these answers ,  to these questions,  that you are asking me.
Alright.
I've lived next door.
I've lived other places in Valdosta.
But I've lived other places in Valdosta.
With my mother, my sister.
I was a baby okay?
How would I remember?
Oh- Oh next door.
That was the answer?
Oh well sorry.
I did.
I wasn't that much older.
That's ten years.
Maybe twelve.
Okay fourteen.
Do you have your list of questions that I may see?
Cause I think you're just making up  stuff cause- Oh.
What do I remember about this neighborhood?
That it was a neighborhood.
Not a hood,  as the kids try to say now, that it was a neighborhood.
Uh, excuse me.
That-  I mean, what-  There weren't a whole lot of ki- I mean I'm sure there were kids  in the bigger neighborhood.
That were- But there were not a lot of kids  in this neighbor- this part of the neighborhood.
But  The older people watched out for you.
I remember Ms.
Sister,  you know.
And  going to the grocery for her.
Ms.
RD-NAME-2 and her sister Ms.
Rachel.
I can't remember Mr.- um,  Mr.
Squirrel, his mother lived across the street so they all watched out for us, told on us.
Ms.
L even.
When I was  thirty years old, you know.
Keeping up with what we were doing.
Yeah, neighborhoood.
People looking out for you, watching out for you.
Watching over you.
You watching out f- There were kids, but-  Now my sister may have hung out with other kids,  I didn't go beyond,  certain  parameters of the neighborhood.
You know what I'm saying.
Like, you wouldn't find me  on river- What's this street?
River street?
which is just a couple blocks away but just like right in here?
Yes.
Oh lor- But I didn't get a bike until I was ten.
That was a ten speed.
And your mom sent that to me from Oklahoma.
You know the story?
Oh I loved riding that bike.
Oh man.
And I for someth- something within my spirit told me like, this will be the only bike I will ever have.
And I would ride that bike to the Zippy Market.
Oh that's that country side coming out, Zippy Market, convenience store.
Uh, the grocery store that used to be right up there, it used to be several names, but  what was the last name?
Yeah, but it- yeah, but it was another name.
But anyway, and then one- I never forget, one day it was raining.
And I don't know why I went behind,  I guess trying to, beat the traffic.
And I rode across those little grids that they have in there.
And it bent the wheel.
And I dragged that bike all the way back down here,  RD-ADDRESS-5, crying and screaming.
You thought I had been attacked with something.
No, my bike cause I thought would never  have a bike again.
And I never ever ever had another bike.
Isn't that sad?
Yo- I just- I think she just sent it to- I don't- I don't ask for anything.
We couldn't really afford anything.
I didn't really-  like a Easter dress, I didn't ask for that.
And the shoes, I didn't ask for that.
She just sent it to me.
I can't say it was the same year.
I can't put- Yeah.
So I didn't ask for stuff.
No.
I am.
It cr-  In years,  yes.
In experience,  No.
What does that mean?
You said I'm the older sister.
My younger sister,  she has actually done everything  before I have.
Uh, okay.
Um.
Wa- okay.
Fighting, boyfriends,  dating.
The junior prom, senior prom.
She's done all of that.
Married, two kids.
The two kids are old enough to have two kids.
If they wanna have kids    So I'm just saying, she has done everything first.
But not everything.
Things that  people talk about.
Had a bike, yes.
Yes.
And- but I really lost it, cause who would fix it?
Mm-mm, see I don't have friends like that.
And nobody in my grandmother's house, fixed it for-  I don't even know what happened to the bike.
Except my wheel got bent.
Isn't that something.
Really?
A great ten speed, yes.
But anyway I hope this is not all about the bike.
Mm.
I've been to Oklahoma maybe three times.
I think three times.
I loved out- in Oklahoma.
I loved the air.
I loved what it did for my skin,  my hair, I loved Oklahoma.
It was just being alone in Oklahoma that was the problem.
Uh, Oklahoma,  certain places I would be in,  had spirits, Spirits, what does that mean?
You know what a spirit is.
I'm sorry.
Your brother took me to the bus station Greyhound.
Put me on a bus at two o'clock in the morning.
Of course I was afraid.
And she was afraid.
And she had to go to work.
Yes.
Yeah.
Minnie you don't understand.
Well your brother will have to tell you that one.
Spirits.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
Yes.
That was the time when you had the tooth sticking out above the tooth.
So how old were you?
Ten?
Oh.
Nah, you were big.
Seven?
Nah you were- Mm-mm.
You were younger than that.
You were younger than ten,  you were younger than eight.
Or seven.
Somewhere in there, but you were a big girl.
And- and you got scared so you left.
It wasn't that simple.
Your mom decided it would be best for me to leave.
The facilities- So that she could get some rest.
My spirit could rest,  I come home .
So I could come on home.
Okay.
I loved school.
School was my sanctuary.
Yes.
Yes.
I wouldn't say a great student, or a good student.
I just- school was my sanctuary.
I'll never forget.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Elementary was just what?
A few blocks away.
Which we walked to school.
Hm.
Something someone else did not do.
RD-SCHOOL-4  You- We walked.
Exactly.
But I won't say anymore, but anyway, we walked to school and that was during the time when-  Oh gosh I can't remember the man's name, but it was the killing of the children in Atlanta.
Remember?
Oh you weren't- You weren't born then.
Mm-hm.
And so like, so afraid.
But just  excited about school and when I would get to school.
And  Our teacher would pull up, Oh gosh, Mrs.
RD-NAME-2 that was her name.
Which  I actually went to RD-SCHOOL-1 school first, but anyway  right over here at RD-SCHOOL-3 elementary.
We would run to her car.
We would race to her car, the students.
They'd bring her things back to the classroom.
That was,  the second semester of third grade.
And I remember reading stories and doing the multiplication and we would have to  race each other or whatever.
Loved it.
Ham bone.
She'd play that beating her chest but she would also throw erasers at us, if we were misbehave.
She also would  hit our hands with a little ruler.
I don't know if that was legal or not, but.
Hey, we were  six, seven, eight years old.
She's still my favorite teacher.
Ms.
RD-NAME-6.
I'm not sure.
She was on the board of education.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Never.
No, RD-SCHOOL-3 was always elem- they done went to fifth and sixth grade.
four, fifth or then six- yeah Elementary.
Right.
Right.
Right.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Junior High.
Which is RD-SCHOOL-3 middle school, but they- you know, tore it down.
And  made it new so.
It's so sad, all the buildings that I re- Can you imagine?
They've torn them down.
RD-SCHOOL-3 elementary,    they just knocked it down.
Built a new school and then renamed it.
RD-SCHOOL-3 Junior High, knocked it down,  renamed it.
That's sad to me.
Now RD-SCHOOL-3 High School is moving.
And that saddens me as well.
I'm not as excited as the  other teachers and faculty members.
They're all like, oh it take-  It's three miles to walk around the school, blah blah blah.
That doesn't excite me.
Mm, RD-SCHOOL-3 Junior High, I got involved in sports.
But, I mean I- everyday was a great day for me at school.
I could even remember  cursing.
Well actually, I wrote a girl a note cussing her out.
And she gave the note to the science teacher and he took me outside.
And he told me that I was an ath- student athlete, blah blah blah.
And how great I was and I don't need to do this and that's why I don't curse.
Seventh gr- seventh or eighth grade.
Cause it was RD-SCHOOL-3 Junior High School then.
Yeah.
I think it was seventh grade.
I know you know these stories stop  It's not even the whole story.
I'm just telling you little clips so we can move on.
Mm-hm.
Cause she wrote me a cur- I can't even remember her name now.
I could see her face sitting in science class.
Okay, I got something for you.
And I wrote it up.
And I gave it to her.
She-  Mr.
RD-NAME-2, that was his name.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
Well, you know to that, I mean there was- back- this is not me.
I'm a student athlete, blah blah blah.
So did I get into trouble?
No, but him talking to me like that, boy, that just made an impression on me.
For  thirty years.
Yeah.
Basketball and track.
Mm.
So-so.
I don't know.
I'd have to think about that because I had great teachers.
Social studies we had to do- Mrs.
RD-NAME-1.
I had great teachers.
Ms.- Like I said, Mrs.
RD-NAME-1 was social studies with all those presidents projects.
I should know all forty- which one is this?
forty five?
I should know all of them.
Um,  Like I said, Ms.
RD-NAME-2 in third grade,  had a math teacher in fifth grade.
Mr.
RD-NAME-3 who was a  teacher when I was in fifth grade.
Then became an assistant principle.
I don't know if he became a principal principal, but then got into trouble.
So I don't know where he is now.
So,   I'm just trying to think like  gosh, if I could just remember all of their names.
My first language arts teacher that I- r- It was the end of the school year.
She started reading-  reading Edgar Allen Poe to us.
And I don't remember what t- uh- the story was,  but she was sitting on top of the desk.
It was so interesting and just like.
Moment by moment what was she gonna s- This was fourth grade.
What she was going to say.
And  she never finished reading the whole story.
But anyway.
What wa-  I'm not sure cause I used to- like I said, math, I loved math.
I loved- I loved school.
I still love being at school.
Even when they fight.
I love- I wanna jump in the fight.
Let me get in.
But, But that was coach that was- he was a coach he was a football coach I -think.
Mm-hm.
Well just- Again, I mean just s- still thinking of the teachers that I've had.
Ms.
RD-NAME-3,  all- Ms.
RD-NAME-2, all the-  like every teacher I've mentioned.
My art teacher, they all had an impact on me.
I love-  Even when they were  so called, mean or tough,  I loved them.
I don't know, I just think that he- I mean, I didn't get into trouble, which I-  I didn't get into trouble, I didn't go to the office, I didn't get suspended, whatever.
Which I have spent a couple days in.
What is it called?
ESS?
ISS?
A after school detention.
I'm not even quite sure for what, cause I was not a bad student.
And that's why I can't understand why I got whoopings.
Cause I was not a bad child.
But my sister was.
And that maybe  the reason.
I was in ISS.
My sister, I know I'm thinking on this stuff right now.
Okay what's your next question?
Mm-hm.
Absolutely.
Home of the marching cats.
Hm.
Was the football team good when you were there?
Absolutely.
Our football team was great, but whether they won or l- lost,  they still were awesome.
Cause I- I mean that was nineteen blah blah.
And it were wonderful.
Before I graduated, yes.
After I graduated, yes.
Several times, yes.
Yes.
Right the school- the f- Yeah.
And then the f- I mean, uh what do you mean how was the- Always.
From ninth grade being so awkward and odd.
And  You know, your body changing and growing.
And  you know,  the groups, the clicks.
And  it is so odd now that I look at it thinking about the gloop- groups and the clicks.
Like in high school,  it doesn't matter if your father was  not in your life.
Or your father was a doctor or the mayor.
Like you all were  the same.
Like we were all in the same classes.
Do you know what I'm saying.
Like we were all treated the s- at least I felt that way- treated the same.
But once you graduated,  life does not treat you the same.
At least, I don't think so.
But-  It- and it still is.
Except now, high school  has at least three  maybe more microcosms within the  hotal-  total  subset  known as, RD-SCHOOL-3 High.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Because we have like, the so called, honest kids.
But they all are not honest kid- but they are p- predominantly-  are majority a certain race.
And like their parents don't want them to Yeah, with the other kids.
Which those kids who are supposedly to be- Like everybody's college prep.
And-  but everybody's not college prep.
And our principal she's in the game of  graduating  students,  that doesn't mean educating students.
It doesn't mean they're prepared.
You understand?
So isn- for a lot of people- Oh it's the numbers and they get all excited.
But for me, it's about making that individual  contact, more than just a contact.
Just a-  It's more than just responsibility cause I have a responsibility, for that student.
Even though that student is thirteen, fourteen  definitely has a responsibility sitting in my classroom as well.
And I just jumped subjects.
I didn't mean to do that cause we started on Valdosta High School.
Yeah, but now in a different-  co- I'm saying as a- as a classroom teacher.
I've always been an educator.
That's the sad part about it.
Don't- Haven't you realized that?
And I'm always spending my- Well my- s- my free time  with kids.
You know open up the che- Come on kids, what do we got- I don't know.
Come let's do something.
You know I'm thinking.
Why did I spend all my- I could be putting my ideas into some money making things, but  this is my investment.
Passion.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And I have a friend now.
She has so many degrees.
And all she talks about is,  oh I can't wait til I start making this amount of money.
And for me,  it's n-  If the money comes, wonderful.
Is it- if it doesn't,  I'm still going to survive.
It's not about a bigger house, bigger car, whatever,  it's not.
But if I have a kid in my classroom, who doesn't have on shoes,  or has on,  two different pairs of shoes.
Or have stuff smeared across his shirt,  or has  other kids picking on him.
No, that can't happen.
So they gonna bully, I'll be the biggest bully, cause that's not allowed.
What?
Oh I'm not used to that.
You're supposed to be  jumping in and saying stuff.
J- raising your hand.
W-  Can I go to the bathroom.
This is not important to me.
Oh, well it's important to me.
I was not a teacher.
I was an educator.
Oh lord, I'm'a gonna die  All these wonderful educators that were in your life, when you were in the RD-SCHOOL-3 city school system.
And- and before-  before-  before you were in the school system.
You're mom.
I have to tell you,  the biggest educator and supporter you have, believe it or not I'll have to tell you, don't you- No, even with you being tested for gifted,  and how they tried to, oh, we can't do this.
Oh, it costs this, whatever,  and your mom kept on pushing, pushing and calling til they had you tested  at the college.
You don't even know that, do you?
Mm-hm.
And doesn't that bother you?
Like, why did they give you such a-  I mean there are so many kids that would have that hurry.
Honors,  and it came from when they were in elementary school, or whatever but they still have that tag.
You know, when they're in high school.
Well why do you think they gave you such a hard time?
Do you ever think about that?
Like that still bothers me.
At the same time, those teachers from the high school, And at three- that I- well two right now I could name Ms.
RD-NAME-2  and Mr.
RD-NAME-1  think very highly of you.
And they both are caucasian.
And I don't even know how they knew- Well I knew Ms.
RD-NAME-2 knew you, But immediately when you had your stroke, Ms.- Ms.
RD-NAME-2 talk- Oh, oh Minnie that, huh.
That was twent-  that was two thousand years ago.
Okay, sorry.
How did- how did you know her?
Wait- you- what?
Okay, well that's why.
I know, two years cause- yeah I know, yeah.
I'm just saying- And she's still there.
Right.
And she's teacher of the- Not teacher of the month, teacher of the year.
She's star teacher, again.
RD-NAME-3 But in a way we digress.
But was kind of still on topic.
Oh, Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I was okay.
Our team was not okay.
So, it- so I was about to say, no, we were not okay cause-  And it was during that time, like  it's not like it is today where it's very competitive.
The people who coached  girls' basketball,  didn't really want- they didn't wanna coach girl- they didn't wanna coach girls basketball.
It was just the principal said,  you do it.
Cause coach RD-NAME-2, he was just like, he would sit on the bench.
He wasn't tel- I don't know one play coach RD-NAME-1 has taught us yet.
But anyway, the coach that was before him,  awesome.
But she left my ninth grade year, but it's because of her, that I got the scholarship in Florida.
For my ninth grade year.
Can you believe that?
That is correct.
Oh I was- oh great.
Cause it- my senior year,  I mean, coach RD-NAME-4 would say,  okay we can put  twenty points right here, cause she knows I'm gonna get first place in two events.
She knew that.
I do, did you know that?
That just bother- I mean just like, wow okay s- Where do you look?
Used to be on the back s- yeah.
Mm-hm.
Uh.
Well when I go through  the front of the school and I see that picture of you, And you're with the president of Georgia.
Was it a president?
Governor, oh governor.
Youth governor.
Yeah.
yes.
I'm like, I know her.
I'm related.
I didn't have- other than just being odd, I didn't really have any  problems.
I mean I didn't go to anything u-  You know, I'm saying odd, like  I just stayed to myself,  except for sports.
I didn't  you know,  I come- go to school, come home.
That's about it.
I didn't do any dances  anything like that.
that's why I get so excited now to do the prom.
Which my picture is over there on your mom's shelf.
I went to the prom that's my first year, yes.
What?
No, cause I didn't- I wasn't gonna say- ask anything, or say anything about prom, prom dresses.
We didn't-  Nobody had to say that we didn't have money for you to know you don't have money.
So why would I ask for stuff like that?
So, no.
I don't wanna go.
I'm good.
I'm fine.
And who would I go with?
Next subject.
Oh, no it was kind of odd cause I just happened to be in a Valdosta mall.
I'm not even sure why I was in a mall, cause I am not a shopper.
And I saw coach.
RD-NAME-3, I can't even think of her last name now.
Just slipped my mind, sorry.
And I was like, oh hey coach.
And she was like, hey RD-NAME-3, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And it was just like a few minutes and she told me the lady's name.
And told me she would be contacting me.
I was like well, okay and I didn't really think anything of it.
And they sent it to the me in the mail, at school.
And it was the whole little,  you know, full scholarship.
Blah, blah, blah, sign here, sign there.
And most people w- you have a-  you know how you sign- when they have a signing day and all that?
I- I just signed mine on the bus.
We were going to some- I don't know if it was a basketball game, or a track meet.
I can't remember now.
I just signed it  and put it back in the- Cause I didn't really think anything of it.
What do you mean, my family?
Oh, uh, yeah.
It was not a big deal.
It was just another thing, just like,  when you left elementary school to go to middle school, it's like, oh no, I wanna stay back.
I don't wanna go to middle school, or junior high school.
And once it's time to leave junior high school and go to high school, oh no, let me stay back.
I can't go to high school.
You know so many people or whatever.
And you get there and you do just fine.
Then you go onto the next thing.
The thing I have not been able to accomplish,  is that master's degree.
That is a great question.
I just don't have all the answers right now.
If at- for a time,  money.
Cause I- And I just realized,  I spent a lot of time on  my lessons that I teach, preparing my lessons.
Thinking about how my kids are going to get it.
Like one day we even had a fire drill.
And just for them following the directions and doing what we're supposed to do.
And I was like, And you get a car, and you get a car.
I was opening up the AC.
And you get a car, it's like, oh is she gonna get us a car?
And so I'm not very, uh,  artistic, I guess.
But when my mind gets to working, well I can do some things.
So I'll put together little chocolate cars for them.
And so they had- we had the little raffles and they got the little  chocolate car.
Which was a big deal.
It was fun for me.
Oh god  Mm-mm.
I said those words?
I don't think so.
Because-  Oh.
Going to the plays.
Okay RD-NAME-2 let's go to the play.
You supposed to say when?
They have RD-NAME-3 come on RD-NAME-3, we're going to the play.
I'm not teaching.
That's just living life, come on, let's go.
You did not see that with me.
I promise you I did not see- I don't think so.
And then we did it again at RD-SCHOOL-4.
for, ever    It is.
And it's not just, oh summer vacation.
Woo I'm off.
Nah, it's not like that.
The Standard American English.
And- but then I got into, oh, this is how they say it in the South.
And this is how they say it in the North and the Midwest and the-  And it just went-  It was too much.
It was  units.
It wasn't instead of just a lesson.
When I just wanted to-  Cause language is so  I don't know the word.
Evocative and yet, evasive.
Or maybe provocative.
You know?
It is.
And it's not just about-  Okay, let me-  I was,  again, I think I told you, just dealing with my health.
And I just came from a doctor or whatever.
Thinking about,  I guess I said, my career.
Or just thinking about life.
And I wanna say that life is not just these six blocks that we live.
Like, you asked me about the neighborhood.
But then again, huh?
But then again it is.
Cause here I am.
Not just sitting here, but it all comes back right here.
Even the memories.
The people, the places.
Ay- you asked me about the neighbors.
And I mentioned Ms.
Sister earlier.
Ms.
Sister used to call grandmom, grandmother.
Grandmother, why?
I'm elevated.
For us to come ove- For me, not my sister  to come over to go to the grocery store for her.
And she always wanted some sizzling bacon.
When I got to the door,  she was butt naked.
Hell am I supposed to do?
What am I supposed to say?
I just act like I didn't see it.
Yes ma'am.
You want some sizzling bacon?
Say I'll be right back.
Or we would play in the dirt, oh gosh I was thinking of all the fun just right there in the dirt.
Hopscotch and marbles and just, r- hitting a ball on top of the house, or something and she'd yell us,  y'all hitting up my- in my garage- not garage.
What is that?
car- car space.
She didn't have a car, who was gonna drive there?
But she would just yell at us, but you- she loved us- cause I'd play christian music.
Especially on Sunday.
And she'd come out on porch, I love that song.
I said, I love it too.
Mm-hm.
Ms.
RD-NAME-2 and her kids, her husband,  when they moved across the street,  Ms.
RD-NAME-2, I already mentioned Ms.
RD-NAME-2.
Ms.
RD-NAME-2 and her kids, talking about education, Ms.
RD-NAME-2, she had summer school for us.
She had books,  were you- was she around then?
We would go up there, she would have food she had the tables all set.
Right over there with her big plant kind of tree thing is.
Yes.
That's one thing I loved about the neighborhood.
I couldn't skate worth a thing.
But I'd get out there, try to skate, we would race,  oh my goodness.
One day out there skating  and who came?
I wanna say it was RD-NAME-2.
That's Dot's brother.
Which you probably don't know him.
He's from Tampa.
He was in the military.
His car was parked right there in the little,  curve or driveway.
And so I couldn't curve to go up in the driveway to kind of stop on the grass.
So what I did, curve flop.
Right on top of his car, okay.
Boom, so that was a talk  for a minute, but you can get all those stories from my sister.
Those were the days.
Yes, Sheila, who was about this high, still this high, she has a three kids.
But just that-  that, power in her legs, skating.
Playing kickball in the street.
All right y'all here come a car, get out the way.
Okay, yes.
That was wonderful.
Kids today you gotta be worried, okay that got a gun, they carrying drugs dah dah dah dah.
And it's hard to see them as, they're still kids,  mm-hm-hm.
I have to say some adults are still kids.
And they need somebody to tell them that it's okay that they need to talk.
Not that the person that they're talking to can solve their problems, but to get it out.
The only reason I'm saying that,  I don't know why I'm saying that, but I'm'a say it to you,  I was in intensive care for three days.
You remember when I fell out,  in Walmart out there?
When I went in and got the van- I said how did I get in that van.
Big old van from  the airport out there.
Getting a little  buckets for the beach.
For them to- I want to make sand-  I have no kids, but I always have kids.
I birthed no kids, but I always have children.
And so, getting a little game to take them to the beach.
And all I remember is that my eyes,  It just looked like I was looking through a  kaleidoscope or something.
And I don't remember anything else.
But the people in the store, on my little paperwork they had, it said I said,  what was it?
Help me God, or help me Jesus, or something like that.
But I didn't- Three days, I chewed up my tongue.
They couldn't figure out what- what-  well what was wrong?
What's wrong with her?
What's going on?
Neurologist, all this- Couldn't drive for six weeks.
Can you imagine, paying for a car, insurance, gas and all that.
And you still have to wait on somebody else.
Woo my gosh.
And it was my sister.
But anyway,     but that was a lesson in- just a lesson in patience and that-  and that- again, the neurologist was just like,  That was out right- right after my mom had passed and all that.
And like, trying to be strong for everybody, you know, and nobody can't see me cry.
I told RD-NAME-3 yesterday.
I haven't cried in a long time.
What's wrong with me?
I'm supposed to be crying everyday.
Well not everyday, but about something.
No.
Maybe I'm wiser,  maybe I'm older.
Maybe those things don't get to me like they used to, but  sometimes you just need to talk.
Just get it out.
Blah,  there it is.
Not to everybody.
some people- My sister,  who has not called me-  Wow when did they move?
In January?
Which I didn't even know they were moving except  what is it, Christmas?
I'm'a go over do a little- I call it a run by, drive by, go see- you know how you in spirit?
Just wanted to see what's going on.
I drove up to Athens, I'm like, woah the house looks different.
Stuff off the wall.
And that's when they said they were moving.
Okay.
Well,  they moved.
RD-NAME-2 came to college, and it's something about his  housing.
Where he didn't have a place to stay, so he stayed with me.
Okay, no problem.
But long story short,  my sister, she was not communicating with me,  as I felt she should have.
So I said okay, well I'm gonna do the same thing.
But now, these past two weeks, she's called me almost every day.
Last night she called me twelve o'clock.
Cause her dad told her  that  she needs to be more like me.
And that upset her.
I said, be more like me?
What do you mean?
That when I was going to school,  when I was becoming a teacher,  that he knew nothing about it.
Y'all get it?
Like,  it- that- she- she shouldn't tell everybody all her business.
She needs to be more like me and hold it in.
I said, RD-NAME-2 please.
Don't be more like me.
Share your excitement.
Like some- The test that she had to take, or whatever.
Like she was sharing that with him.
And that's our dad.
He should be happy, but he said she should be more like me and I'm just saying, the me you think I am,  that's not me.
Let me tell you the real me.
And talk.
Shit.
Uh, okay I'm talking too much.
That was too much.
I'm just saying those were the- Oh wow, I'm sorry.
I'm all over the place.
Uh, what's your lesson plan?
No, I'm just saying, what are we supposed to be talking about?
It was just amazing cause I've always envied her.
Cause she always seems to have  everything.
I told you that.
I'm the older one  chronologically.
Age wise, but she has done everything first.
And she has always been-  Of course she's the baby.
So she is the-  I can't even think of the word.
One is idolized.
The one that's-  Oh,  and I'm the work horse.
And I- I- that's all I can- you know.
You don't know what I'm saying.
I can't actually put into- she's the  Okay, this is the baby.
Let's hold the baby.
Alright, you get to work.
Even we-  Oh she gets it, okay.
Because-  Oh, okay.
Oh okay.
Well then that's the way I- Yeah.
So that's how I feel.
And so, And I feel that way in the family still.
My mom is gone.
My grandmother is gone.
All of my aunts, but one is gone.
And I still feel that way with the cousins, um.
But it's just odd to me, that she would be upset because he told her that she should be more like me.
And not tell everything.
That is so funny to me.
Oh.
The funny thing,  he tells her,  she needs to be more like me.
The person she definitely does not want- Only thing she would wanna be more like me like now, she's working on being a teacher.
Well she used to, ew, poo, poo, poo, ew, a teacher.
Poo, poo, poo, oh, you put in all these hours a, duh, duh, duh.
And now I hear the same stuff that I used to say.
But now I have to sit back and- Oh that's wonderful,  oh you go for it,  oh reach for your dreams, you can do it.
She didn't do that for me,  but it's okay.
Cause I- I'm older.
I'm wiser.
I'm in a whole different place.
I'm at the end of my career.
As far as in that little box room.
She's just at the beginning.
Even though we're only two years apart.
But it just amazed me.
Sombody told somebody to be like me?
Wow, I mean it was a bad,  characteristic, but Wow.
Be like me.
You should be like your sister.
Wow.
I'm like still amazed by that.
That was last- that was  twelve o'clock this morning.
Wow.
And she was upset.
Wow.
Yes.
And she should be more like me.
I am stable.
In,  the five times she's moved,  I've been in the same place.
That is true.
Uh-oh, our time is rind- winding-up.
I don't know why I keep going off in tangents.