Oh wait, I had it- she was so proper, so you saying I'm not proper?
Yep.
He- he is like that.
I try to leave him from time to time.
I'm so loyal.
I'm so- No.
But loyalty, I've learned from this principal-  well she,  mm.
I won't go there.
Like bleach,  real bleach,  with the blue,  that you bought.
Not the one that you buy, like Clorox, the real bleach.
And you buy that,  that's the real thing.
You believe in that it kills right?
The germs and all that you- you- w-   wait ,  RD-NAME-2 stop, the faces.
But no.
And so you become a loyal customer of the like, bleach is your-  Clorox is your bland- brand, when you say bleach  you mean Clorox right?
So you're not gonna go buy the little- other kind of stuff they have like for a dollar.
Cause the Clorox whether it's for washing or cleaning, whatever  it's going to do the job.
I'm that way with-  Your mother's that way even with her toilet tissue.
Scotts well I think- you switching now aren't you?
Okay Scotts,  that's her brand, that's been her brand.
Loyalty.
Even with people, like there are people who have  made it possible  for you.
They might not do what you do.
They might not be as smart as you are,  but if they didn't do the things that you might consider as little or beneath you,  then you couldn't do what you do.
But so you are very  loyal.
Like that's- li- I know you and your mom- mom  gonna be there, whatever, loyalty.
I can't explain it.
So like,  my-  me, I'm saying, like where I work at, my boss, like I should be loyal.
But being loyal now means  to some people, that you are going to  be dishonest,  discredit yourself,  to save,  or to make the one that's in charge look like  how could I say,  hot cheddar.
Hot cheese so to speak.
Does that make sense?
And so loyalty now, like, the last two years, I never thought of it this way.
But it's like a dirty word.
And that's so sad to me because I am loyal.
I am  stable.
Very much so.
It's hard for me to get out of my-  I've gotta find another place to live, because of my situation with my feet and all, but  I'm just,  consistent, stable, loyal, that's me.
And so- But sometimes, though, you might have to-  I don't know, to save yourself.
We do.
And it's sa- Well I don't know about cut the ties.
I think you should always be able to- wherever home was, to go back home.
And I'll never forget.
And this was recently,  when I got my dri- oh it was last year at August.
Renewing my driver's license.
And these two guys, were talking.
I'm never involved really in the conversation, but I always am over  hearing conversations.
And he says, you can always go back home.
And I'm listening like, I always go back home.
Whether you're dead, or alive, definitely if you're dead, you're gonna always go back home.
And I thought, wow, that's why I kept saying I gotta get involved in the church again, cause I  stopped going to church because of my heroes.
They kind of fell down.
Do you know what I'm saying?
So again, that whole loyalty-  It's like last year,  is different now.
That's why I use the word sta-  stability.
That's different.
Loyalty,  gonna be there where you're my ride or die.
I ain't your ride or die.
That's your ride, or she could catch another ride.
Okay.
Sorry.
Mm-mm.
But, that's why I spend a lot of time to myself.
Cause when you come out,  that makes you  vulnerable to other people.
And that's the one thing with- which kids, which- yeah, they're thirteen, fourteen,  whatever, fifteen.
Some of them might be seventeen.
I can be more  at ease.
And vulnerable with them,  cause I pretty much-  This is me,  know,  where they're-  Well, downfalls, their stresses are.
And if I don't know the answer.
If I can't help them, I feel like I- we have all these different places.
Within the school, in the community, that can help them, their families, whatever.
But when it comes to- like you said, do you always hang out with ki- Yeah pretty much, but when it comes to people my age,  it w-  mm,  I don't have,  the energy.
And I don't wanna waste the time, in  games.
Just say it.
Like I said before, just say it.
We're on the same team.
You ready to get started with the words?
We're on the same team.