My name is RD-NAME-4.
Today's date is- the fifteenth of,  um,  May.
Um,  you need time?
Oh.
Three, twenty-six, nineteen seventy-six.
Valdosta, Georgia.
What neighborhood do I claim?
Um.
I guess I- West Side.
The West Side of Valdosta.
Um.
More or less,  um,  basically all my life except for,  um,  maybe,  a seven, eight year period.
Um, Oklahoma City,  Oklahoma.
Um,  I did most of my schooling  actually,  in Oklahoma, my middle school years.
And middle school, MFA, elementary, middle school  and we left  my sophomore year.
I graduated from  RD-SCHOOL-3 High.
Yes.
I currently- I currently go to RD-SCHOOL-6 College.
Um,  I'm studying-  I'm on my basics right now.
Doing all my core, but  I'm going into sociology.
No, not right now.
I'm unemployed.
Um,  I think he was born in Valdosta.
She was most definitely-  I think she was born in Valdosta too.
Um.
He's the tire man.
Uh, he sells used tires.
And does other mechanic work.
My mom is,  um,  a behavioral health counselor.
Um,  as far as- What I remember ?
Um,  I had a good childhood.
Um.
I love coming to  Valdosta in the summer times.
And going to the Boys and Girls Club.
Meeting up with old friends.
And,  um, swimming.
And  riding bicycles.
And  playing marbles.
Yes,  I did.
Right up the road.
That's where I learned how to swim actually.
My best friend when I was growing up?
Uh.
Man.
I have to say it was probably, um,  RD-NAME-4.
And RD-NAME-5.
Yes.
Um, but I see RD-NAME-2 all the time.
RD-NAME-2 is more or less like my cousin.
We call each other cuz, but we really ain't cousins cousins, but we just  call each other cousins, cause we been  knowing each other for so long.
And RD-NAME-3 he's currently,  he- he stays in Virginia, but every time he comes-  every time he comes home, he always  go out his way to make sure he stop by and  give me a holler.
Oh.
Man, at my grandmother's house.
Yeah.
Grandma RD-NAME-4.
I'm talking about that was a great place.
A lot of love.
Good eating.
I always someone going home.
Yeah, I was.
Kind of.
Cause grandma would used to  always take my side.
So yeah I was kind of spoiled.
I couldn't do no wrong in her eyes.
So,  if they said I did something,  I probably did it, but I lied.
I didn't do that grandma.
I didn't do it.
To get out of- actually I know I won't get a butt whooping.
At that's when switches- woah, woah boy you didn't want no switch whooping.
Ooh wee.
That's when those switches was-  well you got a real whooping then.
And, uh,  but yeah most- I was- yeah, I would say I was spoiled,  a little bit.
It was actually, me, grandmama,  um,  mama,  um,  RD-NAME-2,  RD-NAME-3,  um, my Aunty RD-NAME-1  yeah that's-  that's everybody.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
We did.
Well,  not really.
It- it really didn't.
It- it-  not at that time.
You know, I was young so.
You know.
I would always go get in the bed.
I always had a place to sleep in grandma bed.
In grandma bed, I don't know what it was about grandma bed,  if you was sick,  if something was going on,  or  you was tired.
She had the best bed in the world.
It seemed like you could just  go melt in her bed for some strange reason.
Uh,  I really-  Mama actually ended up moving  because,  um,  my Aunt RD-NAME-2 son,  RD-NAME-3.
RD-NAME-1,  was, um, stationed in Oklahoma I think at that time.
And  mama's, uh, she wanted to change the environment.
W- um,  cause of something that had went on here.
So she decided to move out there.
And so,  she moved out there  when I was maybe eight years old.
Yeah.
Well,  um,  I think mama was working at,  uh, RD-WORK-4  when she met, um,  my favorite person's daddy.
And, uh,  soon after that they  got in a relationship and  I think, uh,  I know they got married.
And  then  a little while after that, um,  baby girl came.
I think that's how it went.
I'm not for sure cause you know it's- it's-  it's been so long ago.
So.
But I think that's how it went.
Well I-  I enjoyed it.
I mean because  more or less  it was something for me to do and  I had somebody that I could protect.
And then, I wanted a little sister.
She was precious.
And, um,  you know.
Somebody I could boss around, cause I was always getting bossed around.
So-   but that didn't turn out right either after a few years .
Yeah, but  more or less, it- it was just  I was- I was happy to have somebody else.
You know, in the house with me.
Mm-hm.
Yeah,  it was nice.
I had a partner named RD-NAME-2 back then.
Me and RD-NAME-2 used to play together all the time.
He was a  caucasian  uh, male.
Yeah.
No, this is- we stayed in Oak Ridge.
You stayin- No you don't remember cause you was a baby.
Yeah.
Y- w- yeah we stayed in Oak Ridge then.
And  yeah, um,  me and RD-NAME-2 were friends.
Yup.
And mama used to fix me lunch.
It used to be nice.
It was real nice.
And then later on  after  things kind of got a little rocky with,  um,  mama and her husband-  That's when we later moved to-  over there at RD-ADDRESS-4.
On the South Side,  on the Southeast Side rather.
Yeah, cause actually  we was in the better neighborhood, but then we ended up  moving to a  A little bit  worser neighborhood.
Well quite worse  I'm gonna say.
Mm-hm.
I used to walk you to the nursery.
Mm-hm.
My fondest w- .
My fondest memory growing up?
Um.
I had this dude  that was in my class  I can't remember his name,  but, um,  he was real good at break dancing.
And so he- he got a chance to be- um,  to go out  and  visit- he- he got a chance to- he won a trip to go visit at  Los Ange w-  the-  go to Los Angeles  and, um,  be in a break dancing contest.
And then when he came back, he had a real tattoo.
And I couldn't believe it because we was in elementary.
And his parents allowed him to get a tattoo.
So that was like the coolest thing ever.
Man I wanted a tattoo so bad.
You know what I'm saying.
We- we, uh, matter of fact,  I burnt RD-NAME-2 with a r- uh, with a razor trying to put a  a- a- razor burn  tattoo on him .
We wanted tattoo just that bad .
I wouldn't let him burn me though.
I was like man, no.
Yup.
That was- that was one of my fondest memories.
Yeah.
That was cool.
A little older?
Uh, Oh yeah.
We used to have- yeah we used to have a great time.
Me and my little sister playing Nintendo.
That was more or less like,  uh, our bonding moment.
After we had to play school though.
School then Nintendo.
And Nintendo then school.
Yeah.
So I knew that she would one day-  she- sh- I knew  that she would one day become a teacher  of some sort  because  the love that she had for school.
Yup.
Uh, the Mario Brothers.
Um, actually it was the first one.
Yeah.
But then- but then-  then I likeded fourth too.
The one with the raccoon where you could fly.
I used to like that- yeah Oh, with Yoshi?
Is that the one?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah that was- That was the most-  And then I- mama she stopped me from going over there, I was gonna beat him with the stick.
mama talking about whatchu going to do with that stick?
I'm finna go get my Nintendo back.
I know it's over there.
Oh, man.
You know what, I just recently  ah, man  good thing that you said something about that.
I just recently, um, made contact with Jed.
Through Facebook.
And I got to talk to everybody in the family.
Everybody.
And Jed and them,  they called me buff.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  man.
Now that was- that was nice.
Because I got to talk to his mother.
His daddy RD-NAME-1.
His sisters.
Both of his sisters.
And everybody remember me like it was  yesterday.
Yeah.
I met Jed, um,  we actually met, um,  in middle school.
And we was playing football together.
And me and Jed was on the line.
And Jed used to be like, man-  You know Jed used to always say, man come over to my house man.
I was like Jed man, you stay so far away man, you know.
Man, I ain't wanna come over there man.
And so it just so happen one day, his daddy came and pick me up.
And then, uh, from then on,  I started riding my bicycle,  I take my bicycle up-  up the, oh, cause we had this big wall,  or- i- or  well we called this high hill.
You know what I'm saying.
you had to walk up this hill  but it had a lot of  it was a lot of wooded area,  like,  vines and bushes and stuff.
with a lot of sticker brows.
So you would either have to  climb up the wall.
Or walk down,  through all the bushes and stuff,  to get to  the opening, where Jed and them s- where was the-  where the housing was back behind the projects.
So,  um, it was almost like- especially during the summer,  during the summer, I went over there almost every day.
But, uh, during school,  we mighta hung out maybe once or twice  or you know what I'm saying.
If my mama allowed me to go over there some-  It was cool.
Yeah I had- uh,  I used to love football.
Um.
When we was in middle school, we- uh,  we had a  winning tradition at  RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
And, um,  our eighth grade team had been undefeated for  like six seasons.
So we couldn't wait-  we couldn't wait to get  to the eighth grade team.
And be on the eighth grade team,  because, you know, we wanted to carry on that tradition.
But  we ended up-  And then it- what's crazy is,  we ended up losing  the last game of the season.
Sure did.
We lost our last game.
We broke the tradition.
Yup.
That was poor.
Yes it was.
And then not only that, now on my ninth grade year,  my ninth grade year we only won, one game.
Yeah.
S- shoot.
We got our butt kicked.
For the rest of the games, w- we had- we played ten games that year  and we went one and nine.
Not nine and one, one and nine.
And the only game that we won,  was against RD-SCHOOL-3  at homecoming.
Yeah, w- we won homecoming though.
We- we- we- we did our thing on homecoming, but boy we ain't do nothing else.
And then- and then one team, we had- we went- we, uh,  this team, uh, I'll never forget this  RD-SCHOOL-2  came down to play us.
Oh man.
These were some of the biggest,  country fed white dudes.
I'm- I'm talking about, man when they got off the bus,  man I thought I was looking at pro players.
I was like, ain't no way in the world  these is high school football players.
Man everybody on they line,  was six  foot plus.
Everybody.
Man, then they had-  I was like,  they still coming out of the bus.
Man, those folks  mercy ruled us,  in the first half.
Them folks beat us so bad in the first half,  that-  it was unreal.
Man it was like  forty eight to nothing in a- in a second.
And that- and that's the second quarter, not- you know what I'm saying.
That's going- that's before we go in  for half time.
So our coach was just like, he just threw the towel in.