Yes.
The-  I remember every  I remember every place I lived as a child.
I would say,  the house I lived  in on the East Side is the one that I  spent the most time  growing up  and-  But the  place before that on RD-ADDRESS-2.
Um,  it's probably  my favorite growing up, because that's when me and  my brothers were  that age where you go play outside and  before video games and before  spending so much time inside.
We spent a lot of time outside.
And  probably some of our  fondest and  funniest memories are there.
Mm.
I don't remember the exact  time.
I remember moving to RD-ADDRESS-4 when we  were  I think we were middle school.
When we moved there.
Or just before I was, but  RD-ADDRESS-2 was a duplex.
And growing up we've always lived within  walking dis- distance of  my mom's  parents.
So my grandparents on my mom's side.
So we lived  just around the corner from them.
My grandparents moved over  to the East Side.
And then  not too long afterwards we moved over there, but the  place over on RD-ADDRESS-2 was  where I was a kid.
You know, we had other neighborhood kids that would come over.
And  as a black family thinking about  the rules.
Like when the streetlights come on, that- that's the time when I was in that house.
Be inside  before the streetlight come on.
No going  to somebody else's house.
Had to ask for permission before you leave the yard.
And stuff like that.
So I enjoyed living there.
It's where  we had  the best backyard ever.
climbing trees.
So, we would climb up in the trees together.
We would play race cars, where our backyard had these two bushes in the middle.
And so we'd r-   we were told to rake the leaves.
And we would rake,  but we'd rake 'em into the  shape of a track.
So we would just  rake 'em all to the outside into a circle around the two trees  and that would be our racetrack.
And we had big wheels and  bicycles and me and  my  older brother and then the two younger brothers.
Not the last one, he came along too late.
But the rest of us would go outside, play.
Um,  go around the-  the track.
Race each other.
Climb trees.
Play  Ninja Turtles.
Well there were four of us.
And there are four Ninja Turtles.
No.
She was too old.
By that point.
She didn't- I don't ever remember her playing outside with us.
It was just  me,  my older brother, and then the two next youngest  that played outside together.
There were four of us.
So we each had the different weapon  for  the Ninja Turtles.
I was Donatello.
I liked the bo.
It was simple yet effective.
And then you only had the other was the-  the nunchucks, the sais and the  katanas.
So you know, the two sticks for the katan- You know what I mean, you get creative.
So we had fun,  um,  and then we made the, um,  there was a fence but the par-   part of the fence was broken  so we took some nails and we nailed  a board to it.
Which was our steering wheel.
So that was our turtle mobile.
Don't,-  don't question it.
It was great.
We had a fabulous  time.
But that's what I remember most about RD-ADDRESS-2.
It was where I was a kid.
We- we did have video games, but we couldn't stay on 'em all day.
We had to go outside, had to play.
And  those are probably some of the  fondest  memories  growing up  that I have.
I do.
So I have, older sister, older brother, then three younger brothers.
And  growing up, I guess I didn't know anything different than having a big family.
I've always been a part of a big family.
Lots of cousins.
Lots of aunts, uncles.
And  I've just-  don't know anything different, so people who are only children, or  say, I know all of my cousins.
I don't- I can't even say I know all of my cousins, my family's so big.
So I'm just used to being part of a big family.
But we-  we have  lots of interesting fun stories, I guess growing up.
We  early on, became I guess latchkey kids, you know.
My sister was a little bit older, so she got to stay home with us  more.
Um,  I don't really  I remember having a babysitter, but not for very long.
And then there was my sister that  took on that role, pretty early on.
But we had  normal sibling, I guess issues.
Like other siblings, we fought.
But  We also very protective of one another.
My older sister  being so much older,  wasn't as into the kiddy stuff.
And she kind of liked  being in control.
She liked having  authority.
So there were some summers where she-  she's just interesting.
She would do stuff like, cook  something.
We don't know what it was, but we had to taste it because she said so.
Regardless of how it looked, smelled, or  otherwise might not have looked so appetizing.
But she was the older sister and so it was required.
Yeah, coulda done without that.
But we stuck together.
The rest of us  against  her  sometimes.
Which, worked out sometimes.
Sometimes it didn't.
Um, then my older brother-  I have a lot of  respect for my older brother, cause my dad  wasn't  in the house  for most of my growing up years.
And my older brother- I think I remember him getting his first job.
He was around-  I know he was in high school,  when he got his first job.
So I wanna say  maybe fourteen, or fifteen,  when he got his first job.
And he's had a job ever since.
And would help out  in the house,  help with the bills.
And just  remember him growing up  and being  a pseudo  man of the house  early.
And I appreciate that a lot  about him.
He was very supportive, very  protective.
Still had fun,  but  could  be very responsible  in that way.
And he was at home a lot longer than my sister.
My sister  went to college  and then left  to go to college,  but my brother stayed  and he was there  til I left for college.
So really became-  I don't wanna say a father figure, but just a very strong male presence  for me.
And my younger brothers, we just played.
We-   we just played and we had a good time.
unts- and I don't wanna say until RD-NAME-2  the youngest came along.
But  he-  I-  he had  medical issues.
And  required a lot of medical attention.
So that changed the dynamic a lot.
Cause we were very concerned about him and his health.
And  the amount of time he had to spend in the hospital.
And  stuff like that.
So I- it- I always say he came along a little bit too late.
He came along after  you know, the- the RD-ADDRESS-2 experience  of being able to go outside and play big wheels.
But he also just had a very different experience all together.
Cause  he was born with a heart defect.
And  had his first surgery at two.
And  subsequent surgeries there after, it was  different for him growing up trying to manage being  the youngest,  but being the youngest with medical problems and trying to  manage  being  a little bit different  from  the rest of us.
So,  he- he had it a little bit different.
And  we sometimes  not pick on him, but just say, you- you missed out on the good time when  we  were  just kicking it, having a good time before  cell phones and smartphones and  Xbox Ones took over the world.
We just were kids and he kind of  missed out on that period.
So we were close,  we are,  we have a good time together,  we're all in very different stages of life now, but  still respect each other.
Really appreciate  each other,  um,  but I think the best part  about having a big family,  is-  I mean we never  feel al- not- not alone.
It's- it's that feeling that there's always somebody  in your corner.
Kind of thing.
They're-  We might not talk every single day.
And we might not always-  everybody get together for Christmas, or Thanksgiving, or  whatever the holiday is.
But they are  that  constant.
I- I don't worry  will I be able to pick up the phone  and call  my sister or my brothers.
Or  even cousins if I needed to.
Mom, Dad, whatever.
It's  knowing that  I'm connected  to  a group of people that  don't get to choose not to be connected to me.
No.
Um,  friends can do that.
You know.
Even in relationships that could happen.
But family is-  you- you're not family- uh- y-  you build the love and- and the relationships by choice, but  by  genetics we're family.
And  that does mean something to us.
So we-  we're there for each other.
Mm.
We don't- we do have family tr-  we did  have family traditions.
A lot changed when  my  g-  mom's mother  passed away.
And not that  those traditions were  necessarily  made by her,  but the loss of her,  was really difficult.
on the family, on-  I can say for sure on me  personally.
I remember  the day  the moment, the time I found out that she had passed away.
I remember exactly where I was, what I was doing.
Was at  the RD-SCHOOL-3,  for  summer internship thing.
Walking back from the library where I had been doing research.
One of my brothers called me.
And  just told me  that granny had passed away and  it was unexpected.
And, a  crowd of people is around me, cause I don't remember, if I was screaming- I don't remember what I was doing at that moment.
But it was very clear that I was in distress.
And  one of those moments you never forget because  granny was such, um,  important part  of  not just my life, but all of our lives.
And like I said, I've never lived  further than walking distance from  granny's house.
Spent a lot of time over there.
Spent my summers there.
After school,  we'd be there.
Mad at my mama, so I'll go there.
Didn't matter it's-  that was where I went.
So when she passed away, some of our family traditions  went with her.
Not because she wasn't there to keep them going, but because it was almost too painful to keep them going without her there.
Like, Christmas day going over to granny's house,  having  Christmas dinner there was a big deal.
And every year,    every year,  every other time we have family dinners,  paper plates,  napkins,   plastic forks and spoons, all that.
But not on Christmas day.
She had to pull out the white table cloth  with  the special dishes.
And the special silverware  that of course the grandkids had to clean up after.
And wash.
So we didn't wanna do it, but it was so important to her.
I mean she would iron the tablecloth  on Christmas day.
Cause the tablecloth had to be on the table.
I mean those are the things that  as annoying and irritating as they seemed at the time, I'd give anything to do it again now.
Cause we don't do that anymore.
We don't-  we don't even have Christmas dinner  over at  you know, her house anymore.
A lot of the-  those kinds of things that we used to do.
We- we don't do anymore, cause  doesn't feel the same.
But I miss them.
Let's Elementary school-  Yes.
Mostly.
RD-SCHOOL-3 days that's what we talking about?
Yeah.
Or-  Vaguely yes.
Mm, no.
No.
Not really.
I- I didn't not like it, but I didn't like it.
I remember,  mm, just kind of remember existing through elementary school.
I didn't feel  like- I was definitely not a popular kid, but I wasn't a not popular kid.
I just kind of existed through middle school.
Just trying to figure out where you belong, what you wanna do.
In middle school I didn't have band.
I didn't have-  Oh- I don't remember really doing any extracurricular activities.
I guess the only class I kind of sort of remember is Mr.
Smith's class, his music class.
And I would say that was probably the start of getting into band.
Cause we had that  day where  I think that was- Yeah, the first time that  they started bringing instruments in and  getting to  blow on a mouthpiece and stuff like that  started in elementary school.
Yeah.
Yep.
Definitely woulda started in- in  elementary school, so  Mr.
Smith's class was probably  my favorite.
I remember  enjoying music class when we brought out the xylophones,  really liked the xylophones.
and the tinikling.
That random thing that we used to do.
Have no idea where it comes  from, but I really enjoyed that.
Other than that, no.
I have some other just random memories though.
I have a random memory of Raymond.
In middle school,  cause we used to wait for  the bus together.
Under the awning where the little, um,  hopscotch grid was.
And we would play hopscotch together  until it was time to go.
And one day I don't remember why, but he and I got into an argument.
I don't know about  what.
And he hit me.
And we ended up in the principal's office.
But like I said, random memory,  I don't remember what happened after that,  but, um,  yeah.
Very random memory of him.
And  playing with shaving cream on our desks.
Where we would write out,  like our  spelling words, or  whatever, but we would use  shaving cream.
And I remember thinking that that was  the best day ever, cause we're playing with shaving cream on the desks.
Why we did that, I have no idea.
Uh, maybe it helped you remember your words better.
I-  I don't know, but I have a random memory of enjoying the day when I came in and saw  the shaving cream bottles.
Where we got to play with shaving cream  on the desk.
Yes.
Yes.
W- did fifth and sixth.
Right- or- f-  Was it fifth?
And then we went to RD-SCHOOL-3 middle school.
At- Okay.
RD-SCHOOL-3.
Now RD-SCHOOL-3 I think is,  when I started to  really wanna make friends  of my own.
Cause like I said before that, my f- my siblings were  a really big part of  what I enjoyed.
And  they were my clan, they were my group.
Then I wanted my own friends.
I- ha-  I remember-  And it was- I di- it was definitely in middle school.
First day of school teacher calls your name,  and it's usually whatever your first name is, RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-2 whatever.
Here.
And  I remember going home,  it was at some point in middle school, and all my family calls me RD-NAME-2.
And- and I just  my name's not RD-NAME-2, I'm RD-NAME-3.
And going through this,  I guess semi-identity crisis.
I don't know.
But I didn't wanna be RD-NAME-2 anymore.
I wanted to be RD-NAME-3, that's who I am.
And I'm RD-NAME-3.
And  that's who I need to be.
It lasted for  probably twenty-four hours I think- I don't- I don't think it lasted much longer than that.
Stop calling me RD-NAME-2, I'm- I'm  RD-NAME-3.
Shut up RD-NAME-2.
Uh- uh, really?
I-  Really?
Okay.
Fine.
It lasted for about twenty-four hours and then I'm over it.
Funny thing is now, I-  I find that to be hilarious cause I  appreciate  that in my professional life, or whatever, I'm RD-NAME-3 and  in  my home life and for those who are really close to me, I feel-  I feel good  that  I had that identity as RD-NAME-2 in this space,  um,  but I- I remember being really  silly about that then.
Going through, I want to be-  had in my mind who RD-NAME-3 was, and that's who I needed to be  all the time.
So I could make friends, so I could-  Mm,  have my own  identity  outside of  being a part of one of five kids, or one of six kids.
Um,  so RD-SCHOOL-3 was probably the beginning of me trying to figure out  who I wanted to be outside of my family.
And then  the start of band.
Which,  brought its own  set of identity issues.
Because my older sister was this rockstar clarinetist and  I decided I wanted to play the clarinet too.
And so on top of being RD-NAME-2 at home and RD-NAME-3 at school,  to the older kids in band, I was RD-NAME-2's little sister.
And once again, I didn't feel like I had my own  identity, I didn't have my own-  I didn't stand on my own.
I was  a part of something else.
So I went through that- that, little  identity crisis for a little while and was frustrated by that, but I- That's why I decided I wanted to do in-  When I s- When I was at RD-SCHOOL-3 was- I wanted to play clarinet.
And  I mean I was pretty good at it.
But it took me a while to  embrace the fact that, yeah I am RD-NAME-2's little sister, but I'm also really good at this.
Pay attention to me.
I can stand on my own, I can  perform.
I'm not just  her little sister.
I am-  I'm actually a fairly good instrumentalist myself.
Um,  but yeah.
She does.
I don't know why.
There's probably nobody closer,   who should in theory based on how I've- Almost compartmentalized my life.
Cause I don't  there's actually no-  I- I really don't want  people in my professional life  crossing over to that RD-NAME-2 side,  ooh, wait  that's-  you don't own that.
This one time my dad- My dad is the only one that calls me RD-NAME-2.
There's not another single person in my life who calls me RD-NAME-2.
And he was introducing me to one of his friends, or something one time, and he said this is my daughter RD-NAME-2 and I looked at him.
And gave him a look,  who-  you don't get to give that away.
And- and he apologized, say wait I'm sorry.
This is Nicki,  it's like, it's okay,  if you are friend of the family,  if- if you're in that realm of my life, it's okay,  but he's the only person that calls me RD-NAME-2.
There's- there's something  even though we don't have the best  relationship ever,  it's  still something special  between me and him, that I wanna hold onto.
And that I don't wanna share.
So I don't know why that  transition for us never happened, but  it doesn't  negate  the position that you have in my life.
But I would never want anybody else to call me RD-NAME-2.
Weird.
The transition.
I think for- for us in particular, that time, it was different.
RD-SCHOOL-6 was very new.
It was- it was a new  s- grouping of f- kids.
Our first  middle school instead of going to- What was it?
Junior high before- And then RD-SCHOOL-4 was new.
So we were split- we were splitting up  physically.
We were also being split up differently in terms of age groups.
And  how we were  going through school.
Going to middle school was-  For me I felt at first, it really felt like a good transition.
It's like okay,  my sister did not go  to RD-SCHOOL-6.
So I ha- I had that separation.
I- I'm RD-SCHOOL-3.
My sister went to  what?
RD-SCHOOL-4?
RD-SCHOOL-7  This was  my turn, my own identity.
None of my siblings had been there before me.
That was important.
There was always this kind of struggle for me to  make my own space.
Make my own identity.
Um,  so going into band was great.
But  then I decided  I wanted to be a cheerleader.
I really have no idea why that  became something I wanted to do.
But I wanted to do that, I wanted to be a cheerleader.
And, um,  in the midst of all that, still wanting to get good grades, still wanting to be  academically successful, cause that's important.
Wanting to do band too,  it was this  I need to be my own person.
Funny story,  I didn't try out for cheer in sixth grade, I did in seventh.
And so the team  that started in sixth grade,  all of them decided to try out again  in seventh grade.
And  every  person  who tried out from the previous year,  made it the next year.
Except for one white girl.
And I remember getting a lot  of  backlash from my  peers  on the team.
Um, even from the older team, because  in their words, I took her spot.
Yeah, I tried out like everybody else.
I did the same material.
Performed the same  jumps,  whatever  we had to do for that particular tryout.
And so this thing that was supposed to set me apart, helped me  build my own identity, all of a sudden became this  dark cloud.
And  wasn't even sure if I wanted to do it anymore.
Because I thought it was gonna be fun.
I thought it was gonna be a way to meet  new friends.
And expand my circle and it turned into this big circus.
Um,  I remember,  questioning,  am I gonna do this?
Am I really gonna do this?
Went forward with it, and I'm- and I'm glad I did.
Because cheering did end up being something I loved and something I really enjoyed.
And  had a lot of fun with it over the years.
But my passion was always band.
And music.
Love the music.
And  having the opportunity to  shine in a way that  there was a natural talent there.
Was a natural ability there.
And enjoyed  expressing that part of my  personality that I do have.
Uh, a passion for  art.
And the arts.
So that was-  that was the bright spot.
The cheer, I thought was a way for me to  meet new people.
And it- and it did.
It did end up being that, but it also set me apart.
My sister wasn't a cheerleader.
I don't even think anybody in my family  thought I could  do it.
It was just so far from  anything any of-  anything anyone in my family had done before.
Which,  was probably all the more reason why I wanted to do it.
Cause they didn't think that I could.
Um,    but then in middle school there's also the   the transition into,  uh,  that- that drama that is middle school.
Uh.
There- there was a lot of that.
And  working through that, you know, you meet your best friend, right?
Who didn't like you at first.
S-  Crazy This is  totally straight talk.
My best friend did not like me,    when we first met.
To this day,  would you-  would you care-  enlighten me as to why you didn't  like me  as the best friend?
Yeah.
Not sure at all?
But it's okay, because we were forced together.
L- who- what was it?
Coach?
Coach RD-NAME-2?
Coach RD-NAME-2.
And coach RD-NAME-2's, uh,  class.
Which,  not even sure I was even gonna get in.
You know it's so funny, to be so smart,  and have such great test scores and all that,  they wanted to keep me out of gifted.
Because I don't do very well  on those  analogies.
This is to that as this is to- I- That's just- My brain doesn't think like that.
So for two years, I was kept out of gifted classes, because that score  wasn't  the best in comparison to  all my other scores  but you know, that's when advocacy comes in.
Cause mama  was like, this is ridiculous.
And she stood up for me.
And  got me into gifted  and aren't we glad she did.
Cause then I wouldn't have been in coach RD-NAME-2's class.
Then we wouldn't have been forced to work on our history day project together.
In which case,  yeah the rest is history.
But, um, Oh, it was history wasn't it.
It was great.
So, I think that in middle school,  it was my time for  figuring out who I was, what I wanted to do.
And  in that time,  of  grade school growing up, because by the time I got to high school,  I felt a lot more sure of who I was and what I wanted to do.
And- and how I wanted to spend my time in high school and w-  what came next with college and all that.
but in middle school I felt like that was my formative time.
And  getting the opportunity to  experience.
All that is the drama of middle school from  your best friend  not liking you at first.
And then becoming your best friend.
And then getting mad at you.
And then  figuring out how to fix it.
And then  going through  dealing with other people in your relationship.
And  how to navigate not  letting other people  ruin your relationship.
I think we've  also  had practice at that later,  in  life as well.
No, not at all.
No.
It wasn't meant to be.
No it wasn't.
It was truly meant to say that n-  I think that laid a foundation for how we've  been able to, deal with other people in our relationship.
Cause there has- that has happened multiple times.
A- and  I don't think if we hadn't of made it passed some of those couple  instances we had in middle school we wouldn't have  been able to deal with the ones we've had later  in life.
So middle school was my,  coming of age almost.
Still have that issue.
With the picture that we took together.
Nobody else had done that before.
Pioneers.
Pioneers.
I bleed black and gold like  every other RD-SCHOOL-3 Wildcat.
I am definitely a Wildcat and I'm happy to be a Wildcat.
I'll always be a Wildcat, first and foremost.
In fact, I identify more as a Wildcat than I do as a RD-SCHOOL-5 General,  or a  RD-SCHOOL-3  RD-SCHOOL-4.
See?
I- I had to think about what the mascot is.
I don't-  I don't even know what the mascot is.
I am definitely a Wildcat.
And am proud of it, cause  in Valdosta, th- that's just-  when you talk about Friday Night Lights,  there's nothing like  Valdosta  Lowndes County  football.
And being a part of something so  special.
Being a marching cat meant something.
I mean,  yes we had the football team,  I don't know if you remember,  it was that game,  I don't remember who we were playing,  but we had a competition the next day,  and RD-NAME-2 had us leave  at half time  because he wanted us to you know, get packed up,  get rest,  cause we had to go to competition.
We were winning before half time,  the band left,  we ended up losing the game.
And we're almost ostracized at school the next  Monday, because it was our fault that  the team lost.
How could you leave us?
You were there- you- you were supposed to be there, to support us.
Being in the band was,  uh, yeah you have your typical kind of band geek  stereotypes and stuff, but  for us it wasn't just oh  those band nerds.
Being a marching cat was actually  important, it  it was  not  a scarlet letter,  and being a part of that meant something to me.
I enjoyed it.
Yeah, we have some of the  most,  oh, how do you put it?
They're the best and worst memories all at the same time.
There's  twelve seconds to the moon and  getting the baton thrown out and we out in the parking lot,  screaming and honking horns cause we're frustrated and he's frustrated and everybody's frustrated,  to  grand champions all four years, to  realizing that  we had two of the  best band directors together,  that probably any band could ask for.
Separate,  maybe not so much,  but together,  we had  an amazing instructing staff who could  really get the best out of  you know, some teenagers.
And not just on the field, not just behind the music stand, but  as people.
I remember being  required to have a planner.
And making sure that we brought our planner.
And we're having planner checks.
And  staying on top of our  responsibilities and  feeling very  in control feeling very like, we- we've been given  a lot of responsibility as student leaders.
To self govern.
To self manage.
To not just settle for  where the band directors  do what we tell you to,  but so much more than that.
We want you to be fully productive people and contributing members of society.
It was bigger than  just the music.
So band was probably,  the  central part  I would say for-  for high school.
The band room was like  the center of  my high school universe, it-  There before school,  there during lunch, whether we were supposed to be there or not.
There after school.
It- There  you know, whether it was right after school, or coming back for band practice and being there.
Sectionals and rehearsals and  band camp and being there early, before band camp to get the music together, get the lockers done.
And  ther- It- Just everything I remember about high school, there's so much  about  school I don't remember,  there's so much I remember about being a part  of the band.
And  the times that we shared, the good and the bad.
Lassiter,    the cutie   Orange shirt.
A- and just  that wasn't-  That's not bad.
It wasn't good,  but that's not bad.
Those moments that  many of us can- can sit and talk about  and know that  we experience that together.
We grew together.
A lot of what we learned, I think, honestly, we've carried into adulthood.
That is  what I most cherished about high school.
When people say, oh I would go do college again, I would never do college again.
I would totally do high school again.
I wouldn't do middle school again either.
Definitely wouldn't do middle school.
I would do high school again though.
Cause I had-  i- it wasn't all sunshine and roses.
I mean, there were ups and downs, just like any other  high school  experience,  but  that's where I had  the most fun,  um,  and in terms of who I was, yeah I was still trying to figure that out, but  I felt very much so accepted for just who I was.
The- the little  sort of kind of band geek.
But she- she kind of cool, she alright.
Who was a cheerleader, but I made the choice.
And I didn't  want to do that anymore.
I-  And- and I had to make a choice.
Couldn't do both.
You couldn't do band and cheer at the same time.
I had to make a choice.
I was perfectly content with the choice I made.
I wanted to do band.
I wanted to be a part of Friday Night Lights.
I wanted to be on the field.
I wanted to  be a part of something that is just  Valdosta tradition and history.
The  times that we've  been able to  march every parade in the Winnersville Classic.
And  gosh.
Those are the things that made high school  everything it was.
Besides  then other stuff like  you know, doing the announcements in the morning.
in the principal's office.
Wanting to be in the principal's office weird.
And  hanging out at,  um,   Hanging out in the principal's office.
And  deciding that, hey, we're gonna leave for lunch today, and walking by the principal and saying bye.
And he saying okay.
Even though we're technically skipping school.
I-  High school just worked for me.
It was great.
Mm-hm.
Mm.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I don't even know if you know this actually.
So there was  our relationship.
And then there was the trio.
There was me, you,  um,  well,  and Jenny.
And then sometimes RD-NAME-3.
Yeah, and that  as well.
But then there was my relationship with RD-NAME-4.
And  as you- I mean growing up we were close.
Well,  once we got to high school we were close,  we-  to a certain degree, it probably was  maybe interfered in our relationship a little bit, because I was trying to figure out my  friendships.
And I was really really really close  with RD-NAME-4.
Her dad was a-  a racist.
And  I remember f-  finding that out.
Her-  her mommy, you knew her mom cause she was our- one of our band moms.
Her mom was great.
Molly was great.
She-  I was always welcome at her house.
Sleepovers,  ooh-   I mean we'd-  I was at her house a lot.
And there was one day,  unexpectedly, her dad was coming over.
I didn't think anything of it,  but  I had to leave.
Because I couldn't be there  when he got there, because I was a-  a Black girl in-  their house.
I had no idea  that  it was like that.
And  her being concerned about  me being seen in her car.
Not cause she cared, but because her dad had paid for the car  and she didn't wanna get in trouble  by having a Black person in the car  when  he paid for the car.
I think a lot of Black people have that, sort of, that moment you realize you were Black kind of thing.
That happened a long time before, but  i- at that stage of life,  and having had  such a diverse set of friends,  yep, still the deep South.
Yep, still those moments when you realize  I'm a Black person.
And I get reminded of that  when it was so close to home with one of my closest friends,  that hurt.
And it-  I wasn't upset with RD-NAME-4.
I wasn't upset with her mom.
I wasn't upset  at them at all.
I was jus- upset about  not being able to  do anything about it.
I was upset that  this  person who I have  loved for  you know, as long as I had,  there was this  cloud that she had been managing.
That I didn't even know about.
And it was  it was my fault.
It felt like, it's my fault that she's worried about this.
It's my fault that she's scared about this.
And that  was a realization for me at that age that  you have to separate  people's actions.
I didn't want it to impact my relationship with her.
But you also  have to stand up for  what you believe in too.
And  you know,  fast forward-  fast forwarding many years.
You know she's married to a black man now and has five kids and  is happily married to her husband.
I don't know how that all-  all the details of how that transpired.
I do know he wasn't happy about it.
Her dad wasn't happy about it when he first found out.
But on her wedding day,  I was in her wedding.
And  we were taking a- a picture,  it was after the reception.
And it was, a- a group of the bridesmaids and the  groomsmen and- and family and some friends.
It was- it was a big picture.
And we took the picture and I was kind of in the front with RD-NAME-4.
There were some people behind us, including  her husband and- and her dad.
I didn't know this at the time,  Olivia and I went back and we were watching the video that was put together of the wedding,  and the very last shot, is us all grouping together, to take this picture,  it- it's almost  surreal kind of thing.
Everybody's laughing, we're all having a good time.
And the very last shot is  her husband and her dad,  doing a high five, back behind us.
We didn't know it happened, we didn't know it was there  so now we're both like, in tears.
Because that moment, represented so much more than just, oh we're all having a good time any other circumstance, anybody else,  I don't even think I would've given it a second thought, I wouldn't have given it a second look.
But that  final moment of that video  was  this moment where-  Coming from being  this teenager in high school who had to leave her best friend's house because  her best friend's dad was such a racist they didn't wanna see me  get hurt by him,  to  him giving  her Black husband a high five behind her head that she didn't even know about,  and really welcoming him into his family,  it helped me heal from that situation  as I- I wondered  how it was all gonna pan out.
Here she is marrying him.
Is he really gonna accept him?
Is he really  going to support her marriage?
And  I knew Olivia wanted to have kids.
Is he gonna  love his grandkids or not?
And  both of us, I think realized at that moment that no, really, it's okay.
He's-  Nobody's perfect.
But he learned from that moment.
And  has been able to  see the love between the two of them, to accept that.
just because his skin color is different, doesn't mean their love isn't real.
So that- I think racism and  growing up in the deep South,  there are times when  living on the East Side and  going to Valdosta where-  Yeah, I mean we had- we had a mixed- at that time, we had a mixed population of  folks at our school, but  we- we were able to hang out with a fair amount of Black people, fair amount of white people.
Always knowing that there's that opportunity,  for it to happen.
I think it put me on guard more  than  before that experience.
Yeah I knew,  but that experience really put me on guard.
Going to the wedding and seeing that,  gave me hope that  you make choices,  and you can make a choice to change.
You can make a choice to accept.
You can make a choice to  educate yourself.
And understand that  what you may have thought was true,  maybe isn't.
Mm-hm.
Like I said, college I wouldn't do again.
Would not do that again.
One and done.
I am  happy I went to RD-SCHOOL-4  for the education.
I had a  very  rigorous  academic  experience  at RD-SCHOOL-3 and I appreciate that.
Great professors,  It was a great learning environment actually.
It really was.
Um,  so for the academic experience,  truly appreciate that.
The social experience not so much.
And, um,  you-  I w- I think I would have thought, after having the experiences I had in Valdosta, that I  understood  racism.
And I understood  how that could manifest itself in how people treat you.
What I was not prepared for I think as much was classism.
And going to a  liberal arts school where, you know  tuition was high.
And  most of the kids there were either paying for it you know, themselves or  you know, their parents  funding their education.
Was very different from me.
And it became very clear that class mattered.
In a way that I didn't experience at Valdosta.
I- I just hadn't experienced that level of classism.
So  going to that school,  while- again, I wouldn't do it again,  I learned a lot.
And I think it actually prepared me in a lot of ways for Corporate America.
And figuring out how to  navigate that.
Figuring out how to navigate an environment that I'm not  from.
My parents aren't  corporate,  uh, you know,  they certainly had  decent jobs, but not to the level of  a corporate executive, or  even  you know, senior management in a- in a major corporation.
So,  I didn't have that background.
I didn't have that  built in support system.
And I think  RD-SCHOOL-5  gave me that in a lot of ways.
Because  those kids could be brutal.
They had  different expectations than I had.
They've  felt very much so entitled to things that I didn't,  that I felt like I needed to work for, that they felt like they should just  have by right.
So,  college was  a new kind of awakening.
It was almost this-  realizing when I went to college, that yeah I had more to learn,  college  I felt like, taught me just how much I didn't know.
And how much m- m-  more I needed to  experience.
So RD-SCHOOL-5 is a  small small small school.
And- and I knew that going in.
And I appreciated that.
I wanted small class sizes.
I wanted  to engage.
And it was essentially the same size as  our high school, so.
I felt comfortable  there.
And in my mind it was going to be a similar experience.
In reality it wasn't.
Still appreciate the small class size, did not appreciate  just how divided the school was.
Um, how  the haves and the have nots were very clear.
And  all the way to the experience of being asked by another white student,  how it felt knowing that the only reason I was at the school, was because I was black.
And so they needed to meet  basically certain quotas and  I didn't earn my right to be there.
I wasn't  inherently smart enough, or  capable of actually  achieving success at the school.
I was simply there because  of a diversity initiative.
I mean I- I had never been-  I had never been  treated that way,  middle school, high school  cause nobody ever questioned whether, or not I was intelligent,  at least not to my face.
Or whether I was capable,  I'd always felt like people acknowledged me as being  smart.
And  intelligent.
And  capable.
But for the first time, I literally was being looked at as somebody who was here,  as a quota.
So it taught me a lot about that and  going through that experience,  prepared me a lot for getting into Corporate America, because now,  I feel much more in tune to when those situations happen, when people are looking at me  as less than capable.
And what I need to do in that situation.
And how do you navigate when    you're-  The person looking at you isn't al-  isn't seeing you as standing on your own merits.
So we've-  I've had several situations where that has happened in Corporate America.
And it's been-  I flash back to those times when I was in school and say, you know what?
It's okay.
I got this.
Navigate through that and find a way for myself  to  reassert that, no, I am here.
I'm here for a reason.
I have the ability to be successful.
I  have every quality that it takes to be  where I am in my career,  but I don't think I would've had that experience, had I not been at a place like RD-SCHOOL-5.
Very different.
I think it's a  random kind of  memory I have.
We had  a mock convention  just once every four years,  during the presidential election year.
And it's always for the party that's out of office.
So the year that  we were in school,  it woulda been Democratic.
So we had a Democratic  convention, mock convention where we  go through all that process of  you know, figuring out for each delegation  what the vote was gonna be.
So who the  potential party's nominee would be for president.
And so far the school has  some ridiculous ninety something percent  accuracy rate of  predicting who the presidential nominee will be.
They even got it right  with number forty-five.
They chose the p-  the correct  eventual presidential nominee  that year.
Idaho  delegation,  every- every delegation does shirts.
T-shirts.
That year the Idaho delegation decided that they wanted to do  a shirt  of a caricature  of a black woman.
I dash  duh  dash ho  And-  thought that that was okay.
The f-  frustrating part,  was not so much that they thought that the shirt was okay, but that we got no support  from our administration  to  get them to get rid of the shirts, because they paid for them with their own money.
So,  it was okay  for them to walk around campus  with shirts  of  a-  a black woman in caricature,  calling her a ho.
Frustrating to say the least.
Yeah, kind of hard to  express what that was like.
By the end of the day,  I'll say this,  the school has changed a lot.
I think society has forced that.
Since I've graduated, obviously.
Back in  what?
Two thousand five?
That was our graduation year?
Two thousand five?
So twelve years later.
Wow.
Twelve years later.
Ooh.
Um,  A lot  has changed in the world.
Twelve years later, we've had a Black president since then.
Um,  they've  had to make changes too.
And some reconciliation.
And the school is named RD-SCHOOL-5.
Two  white slave owning men.
One  general for the confederacy.
And I've been asked, well  why'd you decide to go to that school?
How could you go to that school?
Kind of questions.
And the end of the day, I don't think that we should  forget the history of our country.
The history of our country is what it is,  just like I don't  believe that we  destroy every confederate monument that there is.
There's a time and a place.
We have holocaust museums.
We don't forget it,  we don't praise it.
We don't  celebrate it.
But we remember it and we learn from it.
RD-SCHOOL-5,  as an academic institution, has a very strong reputation as a very academically rigorous school that  you can get great professors.
And you can get great classes and  you have small class sizes and you can  do great research.
I mean I had the opportunity to work with  great  economics professors.
And do amazing econometric research and things that I enjoyed around socioeconomic wage gaps.
I most likely- Who knows, if I would've had the same opportunity at a big state school.
I don't know, maybe, maybe not.
So I had some great opportunities there.
And I wouldn't-  Although I wouldn't go do it again, once again.
I- I also would not- not have done it the first time.
I'm glad I did it.
I'm glad I went through that experience.
And I think  RD-SCHOOL-5  as a university has a lot to  reconcile  about how  student life either  promotes  assimilation, or does it promote inclusion?
And  there's some work to do there.
I  haven't been back to campus in a while.
And I don't really know exactly how things feel today,  but I can say that from what I've seen, and from what I've heard from alumni who've graduated since, that things are changing.
And  the conversations are happening.
So,  I'd like to think that some of the things that we raised when we were there.
And  standing firm on that shirt being wrong,  or  when one of the fraternities decided that they were going to take a black Santa Claus and hang it over the balcony with  Christmas lights around its neck.
No matter how  just  idiotic it may have been,  be more aware  of who your  peers are  be more aware of  creating an environment where  your  frat brothers, or sorority sisters feel welcome.
And feel  that this is a place where they can be  all that they came to be  is important.
And  you don't get to be-  you don't get to feign ignorance.
You don't get to-  You don't have that opportunity to just say, well  this is our school, deal with it.
The institution is there for higher education and for learning and for  advancing our society.
So let it be for that purpose.
And ensure that all students, no matter what their background is, can do that.
So I think the school is going through those changes,  I'm glad I've had the opportunity to contribute.
I'm glad that I went to that school,  and I'm hopeful that  going forward,  the things that  I did during my time there and bringing up those concerns.
And raising those concerns,  will continue to  go from class to class and  there'll be some changes there.
I think that experience at RD-SCHOOL-5  probably couldn't have set me up better for what  was to come  in going into  a corporate  environment.
Nothing is like Valdosta.
I've always said I don't wanna move back to Valdosta,  now.
But at some point in my life, or  maybe retire, I don't know.
I- I kind of do.
There's something  little nostalgic,  a little special about Valdosta.
It's not  the smallest city ever.
It's not the biggest city ever, but that's what makes it  special.
And  have a lot of adoration for Valdosta.
I've had very different experiences in all the places I've lived.
Talked about college.
And- and that was really my experience in Virginia.
That- my college experience.
Minneapolis being  vastly different from that.
Being  different  population of people just- I mean my best friend from Minneapolis is Lebanese.
And just a very  prevalent Muslim population.
So learning about  uh, Muslim culture.
And experiencing things that I'd never  experienced before.
Took my  passion for and interest in diversity inclusion to a different level.
As I would say at that point, my interest in diversity inclusion was a- was  for lack of a better term,  very black and white.
Literally and figuratively, it was very black and white.
Then I went to Minneapolis and  it's- it's  actually a lot less black and white.
It's  Hmong and Muslim population and  v- very different  ethnic backgrounds  melting together.
In a space where I- for the first time, saw a lot more  multiracial relationships.
That was different.
That- it's not unheard of, but it was just so much more prevalent  in  Minneapolis.
That experience,  made me want to know more about  beyond  America, Black, white  and America as a melting pot.
And America as  a place of opportunity, for a wide variety and,  uh,    different  perspective  all together.
So Minneapolis gave me that perspective.
Then  appreciating it for what it was, and a great learning opportunity experience, it was not for me from a climate perspective.
So that is when we decided it was time to move to Charlotte.
A- and having the career opportunity to do so.
Charlotte,  was the first place where I-  I- I bought my first home.
And I don't know that I ever thought I was going to  be in Charlotte  forever,  but buying my first home was  a milestone.
I mean I was in my mid twenties and buying a house.
And  starting my very own life, with my then fiance at the time.
And  that didn't work out, but  it  gave me this sense of independence.
And  being able to live on my own, navigate on my own  just  do it myself.
I wasn't in college, and- and when I moved to Minneapolis, I moved to Minneapolis with-  with my company.
And it was a very structured program,  so even though I was out of school, I wasn't living on a campus or anything.
I was living in an apartment.
It's- there was still this structure about it, that I had relocation money that was given to me.
And  there were expectations.
And  i- it was measured and metered.
I moved to Charlotte  on my own.
And  made that decision and had to hire people to move my stuff.
And  it- it felt very grown up.
It felt like-  Charlotte is where I felt like my ad-  true adult life started.
And I went through some  hard times in Charlotte  that  forced- not forced,  inspired me to  look at what was important.
And Charlotte's a great city.
I've-  I had  like I said, that's where I felt like, this is where my adult life started.
I didn't feel like, that's where my adult life needed to be.
Um,  finished my MBA.
And  when I finished my MBA, it felt like a good time to-  to  start fresh.
Start new.
Leave  some heart ache.
And- and some  pain behind.
And that's when I decided I wanted to move to Atlanta.
Be closer to family.
Back to my roots.
Like,  that I  don't get the opportunity to see  my brothers as much as I wanted to.
I didn't see my mom as much as I wanted to.
Charlotte never felt like home,  and although Atlanta's not Valdosta and it never will be,  there's something about being in Georgia that feels like home.
And  being able to s- buy my house in  Atlanta.
And go to Atlanta and start fresh.
Charlotte gave me that opportunity to feel like a grown-up.
Atlanta is where I am by choice because  it's where it felt right in my life at this point.
And I don't know what Atlanta's going to teach me,  kind of hopeful Atlanta will get me a husband maybe,  possibly we'll see.
And if that's what I'm in Atlanta for, then I'm happy about that.
Very.
But maybe l- maybe Atlanta's not the last stop either.
In my heart though,  I kind of hope Valdosta's my last stop.