Mm-hm.
Um,   wow.
Um,    the first house I remember growing up in was,  um,  on Brookwood,  but I remember  going back and forth to Brookwood to West Magnolia  all the time.
And during that time, I believe my aunt was living on West Magnolia.
Like, I have good and bad stories   from West Magnolia, oh my goodness.
All the whoopings I used to get  All the scabs.
So I- I can't say I had-  it was- it was still fun growing up.
But- yeah.
Oh.
Sorry, yeah.
Yeah, I keep forgetting about that.
Mm-hmm.
From- at-  probably.
Some of that stuff I don't remember.
Um.
I can say Claudia Circle-  I forgot about Claudia Circle,  now that's where I actually  remember  growing up, having birthday parties,  hanging out with friends, having sleepovers.
On Claudia Circle.
And  I remember back then  the neighborhood, it was pretty-  I wouldn't say it was like ghetto, but  it was a lot of black people that was living in that neighborhood.
And everybody knew everybody in the neighborhood, like I remember next door- my cousins  lived next door.
Mind you, I didn't know they were my cousins until my mom told me later on.
And then, um,  my  Godmother,  she lived across the street from us, um, RD-NAME-2.
And next door to her was  her daughter, and the next door beside her was, I think, her cousins.
So it was- the neighborhood was almost like a family type of situation.
But other than that it's-    to it- well right now people say it was the ghetto, but  growing up it wasn't the ghetto to me  because that's how I-  I didn't think it was ghetto at that time.
You know.
But  looking back now, some people probably say, yeah it was kind of like that.
But  I felt like my life was  pretty easy.
My mom made sure  that I was safe, so I think  that wasn't ghetto to me,  so.
Um, I have five.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Right.
RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-3 is Claudia Circle, mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um.
Being the baby I can say it was a little hard,  but  it was still kind of fun because my older siblings,  they protected me.
But I can say it's this one story, like, we was riding our bicycles around the neighborhood  and I had a tricycle  because, like, I didn't know how to ride a bicycle.
And this  dog literally chased us    and my brother and sister, they left me and it was- I was like, wait for me and they up there laughing.
But  that's one of the stories I- I was talking to my mom about it yesterday,  but, like, little situations like that.
it was funny at- it was  funny now, but at the time it wasn't.
But, um,    being the baby, it was- it was okay.
But I felt lonely though at the same time, because  there's like, a nine year age difference between me and my older sister.
So it was like  basically I guess she can- I- I guess you could say like, she was upset that I was the baby,  because  like  it was just only me and my bro- like  I don't know.
But  I don't know.
It- it was- it's- it's like a-   a good and bad situation, I guess.
I don't know.
I can say when RD-NAME-3 was born, like, I can say I-  I met my best friend.
Like I tell my little sister  any and everything that's going on in my situ-  in my life.
And  I had my moments where it's like- I was like, she's here and  why she's here, I was the baby.
But,  I still can say  I didn't feel lonely anymore.
And I felt like I could- I could connect with someone because me and her, we're only like  four or five years apart, so.
Um,  even though she was a little mean little girl, but  I can say  when she came along  there was some positive things that started to happen.
And then RD-NAME-3 came along and,  oh, I get two.
Good.
Great.
They're a year apart.
Yeah.
Oh my goodness yes, I was outside all the time.
And that's one thing I can say the difference between growing up in the nineties, and the kids  that were growing up in the nineties with me,  compared to the kids now.
There are so many kids that's inside instead of going outside, like-  like, what are you doing?
But  being outside back then, I can say I was smaller.
I was  heavier.
But  Mm-mm.
I don't- I don't understand why kids are indoors  all the time now, but.
Right.
But still.
I don't know.
Mm-hm.
I went to school at RD-SCHOOL-3 High School.
Okay- baby school, okay.
Ooh.
RD-SCHOOL-5 Right.
Um, RD-SCHOOL-5.
Um,  growing up there it was-  it was- it was okay.
Um,  I don't know.
Throughout school I had bad experiences, but lemme just think- talk about the positives.
Um,  It was- it was okay.
Um,  I remember my first teacher,  my first kindergarten teacher, Miss RD-NAME-1.
She-  she was pretty good.
Um,  and we had a para-pro, her name was Miss RD-NAME-1, she was a black woman.
And even though Miss RD-NAME-1, she had her moments where  she would show her favoritism to the  white kids, Miss RD-NAME-1 will be there to balance it out.
And like, she would show her affection to the black kids and the white kids.
But, um,   what else?
I- it was both, the kids and some of the teachers.
Um, mind you during that time RD-SCHOOL-5, it was majority of white kids that was going to the school, at the time.
Of course there was black kids, but  I remember from growing up there was a l- there was more white kids that was going.
But, um,  I do remember being made fun of all the time, cause I was always taller  than all of my classmates.
And I always got made  fun of because of that.
But it-  in middle school it helped.
But, um, I can say out of all of the- the teachers when I went to RD-SCHOOL-5, Miss RD-NAME-1 was my favorite teacher.
She was hard  but  she wanted the best for her kids.
And I can say she was  one of my favorite teachers.
She was very strict and she  wanted me to  get stuff down, but  it was worth it.
I wish all the teachers was like that, honestly,  at RD-SCHOOL-5 because  teachers aren't like that anymore.
Or at the time.
<ts} Yeah.
I went to RD-SCHOOL-6 because, um after I went- left RD-SCHOOL-2,  we moved to the Dellwood subdivision.
And-  Yes.
Right, um, RD-SCHOOL-2 was  horrible.
RD-SCHOOL-2, it was-   the teachers  were good,  um, but I had a horrible experience at RD-SCHOOL-2.
I had- that's when I first experienced having  panic attacks.
When I, um,  went to RD-SCHOOL-2 and-  sorry.
Because  I had some  bad things happen to me then.
But, um,  I'm sorry just give me one second.
It's just- kids are just so mean, you know,  and then when you have teachers  that  wouldn't believe you when certain things happen, like they will be on the b-  the bad kids' side,  it kind of makes you feel  vulnerable.
And it's like,  you're my teacher, like, can you help me out, you're my principal, you should help me out.
But when you're not helping me out it's like, what else can I do?
But I turn to my mom and I just thank God for my mom so much, because  if she didn't come out to that school  Lord knows what would've happened to me, you know.
But, um-  and then when I got into fifth grade, I, um,  I had a teacher named Miss RD-NAME-3 it was-   and  she's the first teacher to ever taught me how to appreciate being black.
Because every morning,  we would get up  after the Peldge- Pledge of Allegiance, we would always sing Lift Every Voice and Sing.
And that  right there,  to this day I appreciate her.
Because growing up being black and dark-skinned, I just  felt like I wasn't good enough, but-   I still have my moments today, but  she really opened my eyes and  made me feel like, okay you can be black and you can still be Maya Angelou.
You can Martin Luther King.
You can be Rosa Parks.
You can be Thurgood Marshall.
And be black and be great,  you know.
And  I can say that was the one experience that  was so positive out of my entire experience at RD-SCHOOL-2, was being in her class  and appreciating  being black,  you know.
And then after that   I left RD-SCHOOL-2 and  went to RD-SCHOOL-6.
And RD-SCHOOL-6   um, was an amazing experience for me because I experienced  being around  other kids besides  black kids.
I got experience being around Asian kids, um,   Latinos, and  it was-  it was different for me.
And I really enjoyed  that environment.
Not only that  but I've also experienced my- I also learned my talents, like  I didn't know I could be that good at music  until I got in middle school.
Um,  I didn't think that I was  so knowledgable about history until I go in middle school.
So I can say  transitioning from RD-SCHOOL-2 to RD-SCHOOL-6  it was a  huge jump for me.
And I got to experience, um,  going out of town, even though that was kind of hard for my mom.
You know how my mom is, so.
But I can say, um,  the difference between the schools  it was a amazing jump.
But it's- it's kind of sad though, because some of those kids that went to,  um, RD-SCHOOL-4, they didn't experience some of the things I experienced at RD-SCHOOL-2- at RD-SCHOOL-6 because  of the,  you know, like the different sides of towns and  they uplift one school then they do the other school,  so.
That's a disadvantage of being in this town, but  other than that-  oh.
RD-SCHOOL-5  RD-SCHOOL-5 was a little different for me because     I don't know.
I-  I was just going with the flow when I was in high school.
It was like, look I'm just trying to get to college, I don't care about y'all.
I was in marching band, I was in Key Club, um,    I did a lot of things when I was in  high school, but  um,  as far as socializing, I really stayed to myself  a lot.
I had a couple of friends but they were upperclassmen,  and so every time  an upperclassmen friend would graduate, I would be by myself.
So it was kind of hard by the time I got to my junior and senior year, I probably only had like, one or two friends  at the time- excuse me.
And  my other friends were probably like, in band  but  band friends are totally different from,  you know, friends outside of your  extracurricular activities.
But, um,  after high school I went to, um,  college.
Actually I forgot to tell you, my mom wanted me to go to RD-SCHOOL-2  and to become a phlebotomist,  but I didn't wanna do that.
I wanted to go to UGA  and be in the band,  um, I got accepted into UGA and I had a scholarship at UGA.
Um, I auditioned at RD-SCHOOL-8  and  I had a partial  at RD-SCHOOL-8,  but my mom didn't want me to do that.
She wanted me to do phlebotomy because  I can get a good job with that.
But I didn't wanna do it so  I went to RD-SCHOOL-2  for-    I guess for one semester and I quit,   because I didn't wanna do it.
I was goofing off and  I said,  bump it, forget it.
And after I left RD-SCHOOL-2, um,  I started working  for a couple of years and after that, I decided to go back to school and, um,  go to RD-SCHOOL-9 and study sociology and anthropology.
And  that right there,  that was so amazing.
And honestly I can't wait til I go back, but   right now I don't wanna  go back right now, because I feel like God is pushing me to do something else,  at the moment.
But, um,  other than that,  school,  it was- school was okay growing up.
But, um,  I think  My experiences changed  when my environment changed.
Like, compared to, um, living on Claudia Circle,  being on that side of town, moving on the good side of town,  that's when  my school  changed and the  surroundings of the school changed  to a positive.
But,  I wish all the schools  in the city would  be on the same level I guess.
And have the same type of  environment where kids shouldn't have to-  I don't know.
I just wish all the schools was positive instead of  being negative.
I don't- I don't know how to describe it but,  That's the only way how I can  say it,  but.
Mm-hm Um, it's still the same a little bit because,  um,  like I said, I used to track at RD-WORK-3,  and  talking to the kids,  um,  from the two different school districts  there's a little bit of change, but it's still almost the same.
Um,  like I had to track this one kid, he was going to RD-SCHOOL-4,  and he was telling me that his teachers really don't care  if he passes or fail this- fail his class.
And I had to talk to this one girl  that was going to RD-SCHOOL-6,  and her teachers were pushing her like, look you gotta get your stuff together  or you're gonna stay back.
And I feel like in order  for us to change this, I think the parents  and community leaders need to actually step up  and talk to the board like, look we need to get this together and  we need to help our kids out.
But when you have people in office  that wanna be in office just to have power and to collect a check,  that's when it becomes a problem.
That's just my opinion,  but   I just-  I think honestly it starts with the parents as well.
But  the problem is there's too many parents that's just  out working and going with the flow, and not paying attention to their kids  as well,  so.
But there's a little change, but it's- it's not-  it's not happening fast enough.
Like it's- it's  taking too long,  to be honest.
Mm-hm.
Um,  honestly I think it's  a little bit of both, because-  and you have to realize we live in a football town,  so- and that plays a part too.
That football brings in the money,  because you have people from California come to the Winnersville Classic and  check these kids out on the field.
But I honestly think it's a little bit of both because  just seeing how-  going toRD-SCHOOL-5, just seeing how  teachers will pass along athletes before they'll pass along  a regular-degular student,  you know, who is trying their best  to do what they have to do.
You know, they'll give this football player an A and he have any- did any work to  receive that A, when you have this one student  who's busting their behind  and then you give them a C.
It's like,  come on, like, can we  find some balance here but  you can't fault that teacher,  because, you know, you have the coaches and  people on the Touch Down Club is telling them like, look, you need to pass so and so or you'll get fired.
So I- I think it's a- it's-  it's a little bit of both.
Mm-hm.
Um, I discovered music when I was in the fourth grade.
And, um,  my mom and dad bought me a keyboard from Toys R Us.
And  I don't know why they bought it, but  I- I just started toying with it a little bit  and I taught myself how to play, um,   I forgot the name of this song, it's from Beethoven.
But, um,  I wasn't  serious about it, it was just something that  just  came at me naturally.
And  I went to the fifth grade, and we went to   I think the Music Hall of Fame.
I think it's in Macon, Georgia.
I'm not sure, I forgot.
And  I got behind this piano, it was this beautiful grand piano,  and I started playing the song, and all the kids was like,  oh my God, RD-NAME-3 is playing the piano.
And I'm like,  I'm just tapping on some keys, you know.
And that's when I realized maybe  I can do this.
But,  um,  when I got to middle school, that's when I really knew  I had a gift, because,  um,  I started playing the clarinet at the time and I didn't know anything about the notes,  and I just started playing a song.
And my band director came up to me and he was like, what are you playing?
I said, I don't know.
He was like, that sounds really good.
And I'm like,  thank you.
But  he was like,  do you know the notes that you're playing?
I said, no sir.
And he was like,  You have a talent but you gotta learn the notes sweetheart, before you get to do  anything.
Um, Mr.
RD-NAME-2, at the time.
But, um-  but yeah, that's when I really found out that I had  a gift  When it come down to music.
And my mom  heard about that she was like, I'm putting you in piano lessons,  so.
Yeah.
Um,  I took private lessons with the, um, lady named Miss Barbara-  RD-NAME-2?
Is RD-NAME-2- RD-NAME-4.
I don't know why I'm thinking Barbara.
Oh my gosh.
That lady right there,  she was so hard on me, but  I guess she saw the talent that was in me and she wanted to pull it out of me.
But I will- I will always pull it back in.
I guess cause I was nervous around her  because she- she really intimidated me when she-  she was playing some type of  gospel song, and her fingers was just going.
I'm like, oh my God this woman is amazing.
So, but I can say she taught me a lot when it comes down to music, and to this day when I'm at church  I remember some of the things that she told me.
If you don't know the notes to a song,  they way how you can wing it is play chords.
Until this day, that's all I do when I'm at church, I just play chords.
But, yeah.
Because that's the only instrument my mom had in her house.
Exactly.
But, um,  if it was up to me, I probably would've  been a percussionist.
The xylophone, right.
But, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh, man.
Um,  of course I got to travel a lot,  um.
Everywhere in Georgia: Atlanta, Savannah,  Waycross, um,  Bainbridge.
I've been to l- Orlando  maybe five different times.
Um,  New York City,  um,  yeah.
Just to go, we didn't perform or anything.
Mm-hm- well not the whole band, but everybody that  wanted to go.
Yeah.
Um,  it was either my junior or senior year.
It was okay.
I don't like New York.
I don't like the noise, I don't-  Mm.
I- I don't- I don't like New York.
Maybe that I'm a Southern girl and I like the-  the space, but New York is just too  mm-mm.
We went to see Phantom of the Opera, now that was fun,  we ate a lot,  uh,  what else did we do- we seen another show.
It was some  knock-off show we went to go see.
We met   it's this one band director, I forgot his name, I think his name was  Pierre LaPlante.
We watched his, um,  his band play  from what I remember,  yeah.
Oh, he- hoo.
His band was awesome.
But other than that-  that-  it was a short trip so it wasn't  all that grandiose, so.
We, um, we actually took a bus there, so.
Yeah.
That's- yes.
I'm- you don't have to worry about me moving there.
Hm-mm.
Um,   Girls of Grace.
Girls of Grace, that's when I knew- Oh my gosh.
Oh, Lord.
I can say Girls of Grace-  okay,  I remember doing a lot of,  um,  well specifically I remember going to the food bank.
Um,  I remember having  little workshops and classes, and  now this-   this may be a little bit too inappropriate but  I remember having this one discussion about  sex.
And being-  yes, oh my gosh.
Like,  I was like, I don't want my virginity taken.
And I remember you had this piece of paper, I think it was a piece of paper or  candy wrapper,  and   this is your hymen  and if you poke this.
And I was like, oh my God, like.
I remember that til this day and I'm like,  okay.
But yeah, it- oh my gosh.
Girls of Grace was awesome.
You should do that again.
Mm-hm.
Um,  oh man, my memory is-  we did a lot of things, though.
We did,  um,  I wouldn't say it was like a Vacation Bible School, but  it was almost where  you had a group of girls and we would do like, group activities as far as team building.
We did a lot of  yeah, Bible study.
Um,    what else?
Basically- I felt like, to me personally, I felt like you brought in  a lot of people that,  um,  talked to us about,  you know, how it is to be a woman.
Periods, sex, um,  yeah the whole nine yards as far as, um,   I can't think of it.
You know the class, Gender, Sex, and Race?
That's what Girls of Grace  makes me think of  as a whole.
But it was more to it besides that.
Um,  oh we- we  learned about different cultures, like the African, um,   what did we do with that?
I think it was the African party, or?
Yeah, the competition.
Right, now I remember that because we had Nigeria.
I thought Souf A- South Africa was gonna win cause they did a good job.
I remember that.
Um, what else did we do?
Um, We went to Spelman- yes we did.
We did.
We went to Spelman, um,  we toured Spelman and I think we went somewhere else.
We went to the Coca Cola factory  and, um,  but yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
You see, I don't remember none of that.
Mm-hm.
I remember now.
Okay, yeah I remember that.
Yeah.
I remember now.
Yeah.
I remember that now, because I- it- it took me the longest to try to figure out  a slogan.
That was so hard for me.
I remember that now.
Yeah.
But as far as Girls of Grace,  I- that was- that was pretty good.
I didn't- some of the stuff that  that you taught us and  the people that you brought in like, I didn't know.
Like, I didn't know you had to fill out scholarships and stuff,  I didn't know anything about the process of  trying to go to college because I wasn't taught that in high school.
Well,  and middle school too.
But, um,   yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
It was Moonlight Sonata.
I remember, girls are great,  yeah I remember that.
That was crazy but it was-  it was kind of like-  it was awesome because  that was my first time experiencing  people using their creative juices to come up with something that's so simple  like a song like that.
And then we had this one girl  she was the soloist, and I think she came up with her own lyrics  for one part, I believe.
But  I remember that song to this day.
As we grow in his grace-  I forgot the rest, I think.
For his grace,  wasn't there, there's no time to waste?
Come on you Girls of Grace, or something like that.
She did.
She did.
Yup.
Tranquility.
I still have that butterfly on my wall.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Twelve or thirteen years ago.
Yeah, and I still actually have, um,  you know, at the end of  the, um, program, we would have to write-  write to, um, we had to write notes to, um,  all the girls and, um,  put 'em inside of like, I think it was a bag?
I think I have all my notes.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, I still have all of my notes.
Mm-hm it's in a little box.
Because it's like, sometimes I have to go back and look.
Like,  I wonder what these girls are doing.
You know,  so.
And RD-NAME-2.
Yeah, that broke my heart.
Um,  because,  um, I used to see RD-NAME-2 before she moved.
I used to see her all the time.
And the last time I saw her,  she gave me a hug and she was just cheesing- and you know she's a jokester.
She was like, oh, you're getting a little fat.
You know, but I didn't take it serious cause she's-  she's a little jokester, but  yeah.
That-  that broke my heart when  I found out they passed away.
Mm.
I remember RD-NAME-4.
I remember  of course RD-NAME-4.
Well I remember her as Moo.
Mm-hm.
I remember Ashley and Angela.
Um,  RD-NAME-3 and RD-NAME-1.
Yeah, I saw it, I saw it.
Yup.
I- I subscribed to her YouTube channel.
Um,  she's doing a good job.
Yeah.
Right.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Um, right now at my church I am, um,  the youth leader.
Um,  I attend New Harvest United Methodist-  I know that's crazy.
I was born in a Baptist church.
But, um, transitioning from a Baptist to a Methodist  it's- it's pretty much all the same.
We worship the same God, you know, we believe in Jesus Christ, but  the church that I'm located   it's nothing but white people.
So it's a little- it can be a little bit  harsh, I guess.
Because sometimes they tend to flip-flop like pancakes.
As far as attitude and, you know,  comunicating wise.
But other than that,  um,  but yes I'm a youth leader at the church.
And what I do now is- what I'm trying to do because,  um,  I'm trying to bring in more youth at our church,  the church right now is dying out because it's nothing but older people.
And, um,  my plan is to, um,  I guess to start a youth brunch  to bring in some more youth, and then  have movie nights and parties and have Wednesday night Bible study  with 'em.
And, um,  eventually plan a trip  with some of the kids.
But, um,  compared to the-  the church I'm at now to the church I was growing up in,  I can say the church that I was growing up in, it was more family oriented  because it's like,  most of us l-  lived around each other,   you know.
So it's like,  that's my family.
Compared to this church,  they're still family, but  I can say I was closer to the people  at the church I was growing up with.
Um,  but yeah.
Um, oh Lord.
You might say my mom is a  church hopper.
But,   um,  we were attending- but first it was First Antioch, then after First Antioch we went to  New Life Ministries.
Um,   after New Life Ministries we went to  New Harvest.
We left New Life because, um,  it was a whole bunch of drama.
And my mom, she doesn't like to be around drama like that, especially when it comes down to business.
And, um,  basically somebody  stole an idea of hers,  um,  about having some type of women's group.
And the lady stole the idea and my mom was like, okay that's fine I'm'a still continue to go to church.
But then when the lady start  regurgitating lies, and that's when my mama said, okay it's time for me to go.
And we, um,  we were visiting other churches before we left,  um, New Life, and,  um,  at the time my little sister was playing Upward Basketball.
And  that's when we met  the pastor of New Harvest Methodist,  because his daughter was playing basketball with my little sister.
And he,  you know, invited us to go to New Harvest  and that's when we went.
It was something totally different because I'm not be- I'm not used to being a whole bunch of white people  like that.
But other than that, um,  it was a little strange at first,  but the pastor and his wife, they were so warm and welcoming.
The people weren't so welcoming  that much,  but  I guess what made us stay  was  the preacher's faith and, you know,  his tenacity in wanting to  grow the church and make it bigger and make it  culturally diverse.
And that's what made us stay because  we saw his vision and we wanted to h- well  I'm saying we like I'm m- like I'm'a- like I'm m- my parents.
But at the time, my parents  saw his vision  and  they was like, okay we'll help you out with this.
We're gonna-  we're gonna stay.
But, um,  he's no longer there and we have this new pastor  and, um,   our new pastor, he's really good but  again, it's still  too much drama there.
But, um,   I just feel like  God is telling me, personally,  to stay at New Harvest because  there's just so much that  God wants to  do to this church.
Like I,  me personally, I feel like God wants this church to grow  and to manifest and to actually-   it just so much  I feel personally.
Like I don't-  I don't know, it's kind of- it's kind of hard to explain  to be honest.
Because- See the way how my-  .
Right.
I guess, the only reason why I wouldn't start a Girls of Grace because  I'm just now getting into the youth ministry.
Um,  and I feel like I am- I'm still learning myself.
It m- it seemed like you did, you did a good job.
Like this woman know her stuff.
But me, personally, it's like,  I don't know.
I guess another reason is fear.
And fear, that's-  that's-  oh my God I hate  being so fearful.
But that's what's really holding me back, is fear.
Um, but  I thank God for being, um,  for working at RD-WORK-3 because  growing up  I was-  I've  always been shy and quiet, and it's like  usually when I first meet someone, I'm usually quiet and reserved  until, you know,  we continue to talk and it's like I open up.
But it's like, now I can talk to anybody and be okay with it.
Thanks to that job,  but, um.
Okay, basically-  basically RD-WORK-3, um, we were up on a contract with, um,  the J- the  Juvenile Justice Department and, um,   we would track kids that were on-  that was on house arrest.
And what we would do is we would just come by and see if they still had they ankle monitor on,  remind them to charge it up,  and to remind them like, look okay  you need to do the right thing  or you still gonna have this ankle monitor on.
We were basically almost like mentors as well.
Um,   what else?
Yeah, pretty much.
And like we'll always keep a case load of different things that will go on with the kids.
Um,  but me, personally, I took the job more serious  than everybody else because  just watching how some of these kids  were living  it's like, oh my gosh I wanna help these kids get out their situation.
Even if that means like, look  telling Jimmy  dude, do whatchu have to do.
If you need a-  a tutor or something, I'll- I'll hook you up with a tutor, you know.
I will- I will go over and beyond to help some of these kids.
And  like this one story, this one kid,  none of my coworkers knew he was getting raped.
I'm the only person he told  that he was getting raped.
And-  I don't wanna cry again, shut up.
Um, but his mom was a addict,  his stepdad-  he finally told me at the last minute  that his stepdad was raping him.
So, um,  it took everything in me to not  jump on that man,  because I've been sexually assaulted when I was young  so  I called my manager  and she called the cops.
And  to this day, I don't know what happened to that young man because  I left the job,  but  I just pray and hope that he's okay.
Because  just watching him like,  we're not supposed to touch and hug kids, but he  actually ran up to me the night  after  the situation happened.
Like,  w- not after but during-  after the dad did his  do with that kid, he actually ran up to me  and he grabbed and hugged me.
And it's like-  it's like, why would you do that to a kid, he didn't ask-  he didn't ask for that.
Like,  the only thing he could say was,  Miss RD-NAME-2 can you please help me?
Can you please help me?
And I'm like, what's going on?
He was like, he did it again, he did it again.
And  I was so livid, like I got that kid and I drove off  because  I probably woulda killed that man,  to be honest.
I probably woulda killed him.
But, um,  yeah.
Working at RD-WORK-3, it was-  it was little bit of traumatic, but at the same time  I can say I  helped a lot of kids,  as far as, um,  mentoring them and  telling them  what to do.
Um,  and how to   live their life right.
But it's this one kid I still  keep in touch with, um,  he was  strung out on drugs.
And  his mom,  um,  text me sometimes and  she, um, talks to my sister  at times and   right now he's doing a whole lot better.
He's in college  and  he's just doing his thing.
And I- I couldn't be  prouder,  but.
I- you have a point there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
I just have to get over the whole f-  fear and  fear of failing.
Because  throughout my life, only thing I've seen is  failing and failure, it's like, dang girl you can't-  you can't even get a simple bachelor's degree.
And I guess because  I'm-  my mom and my dad-  well my dad doesn't care.
My dad feels like  if you have a business and you make money, that's success.
But in my mom's opinion, she believes that having  degrees means success.
And I can understand that because she doesn't have a high school diploma,  and she wants the best for her kids.
But  I try to tell her like,  school is not for everybody.
But,  I don't wanna keep saying that to myself because then I wouldn't wanna go back to school, but I feel like me, personally,  eventually I'm'a have to go back to school.
But  just being on this pedestal of  you need to do this, you need to do that, you need to be married by this  age, you need to have kids by this age-  it's a little bit difficult, especially coming from your mom and your grandma.
It's like,  come on girl get it together.
And then when your birth father comes in and  puts all that expectation on you, it's like,  well Jesus.
Can I just be me for once?
You know, instead of  doing what everybody else wants me to do, can I do what I wanna do for once, so.
I'm in that space right now,  in my life,  so.
What I want to is actually what I'm doing a little bit now,  as far as misson work  and  dipping- dipping my toe inside of youth ministry.
Um,  that's what I really wanna do.
I really wanna  give back to the community.
This might sound crazy but  I actually wanna have a organization where I feed the homeless  in our city.
Um,  just stuff like that.
That's what I really  want to do, but  it takes  money and that's something I don't have at the moment.
And  I already owe like,  twenty thousand for school.
And I guess that's another reason why I haven't been back to school, because  it's just too much.
But  that's what I really want to do.
I wanna  continue to do mission work and,  um,  do th- youth ministry and,   um,  homeless-  homeslessness stuff, like feeding the homeless,  so.
I guess it sounds crazy-  I don't know.
I don't know.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Um,   when did I get into mission work?
I can say it started with Girls of Grace,  my first experience with  mission work.
It always go back to Girls of Grace.
But, um, Girls of Grace, um,  but more recently  I got into mission work two years ago  with  our pastor.
We change pastors at that church like drawers.
But,   we, um,    our old pastor, she would go to Mexico or, um,  where else did she go?
Panama,  and two years ago she went to the Dominican Republic.
And in the Dominican Republic, the United Methodist Church  has, um,  ties  with the United Methodist Church,  um,  with an- nother church in the Dominican Republic, I think that's how it goes.
But, um,  our district basically  sends them money  and  sometimes they send people to show them how to build certain things.
So the first time I went down there,  we went to do Bible study,  um,  and Vacation Bible School  with the kids.
Um,   We also did a little bit of building too, but they didn't want the women  to do too much building because of,  you know, they feel like women shouldn't  have a hammer in they hands.
And I can understand that, you gotta respect their culture.
But, um,  that's what we were doing there last time.
This go around, we're going back  and we're basically doing the same thing,  um,  but I'm gonna teach the kids how to make jump ropes out of t-shirts.
Where they can make the jump ropes and they can possibly sell the jump ropes,  because  they need to learn how to  build their economy down there.
Um, I'm also gonna teach them how to make  homemade maracas.
And,  um, we're gonna do Bible studies with 'em.
Um, then we're gonna go to, um, two of the poor schools.
We're gonna build I think six benches  and nine tables?
I think,  so.
Yeah.
That's what we're doing  down there.
Um, two of the poor schools, they are really poor.
They don't have  running water,  I don't- I don't even think they have a outhouse  in their facility.
Um,    but we did help them buy, uh,  this like- some type of, uh,  I don't know how to describe it, but it's like, basically they back their breads in it.
It's like, some type of clay  dome.
We did help them, um,  buy that.
But, um,  we're gonna go down there and help them do that, and we probably gonna  give them some money  so they can buy an outhouse.
So they can go to the bathroom at least, instead of digging a hole somewhere and  using the bathroom  God knows where.
So, um,  that's what I'm gonna be doing in the next  two weeks.
Yeah, I'll be leaving in two weeks.
So, yeah.
Oh, man.
My ultimate dream job  RD-NAME-2 why you got me doing this?
My ultimate dream job, I would say is to have an organization where-  just a building where I can have  people to come in if they're hungry, if they need supplies, if they need help  applying for college, if they need help  with anything.
With living assistance, anything, they can come in for free  and we'll help them with that.
That's my dream job.
So,  yeah.
No I did not.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Mkay.
Right.
Mm-hm.
It was a family tradition.
In growing up,  that's all we did.
Like, um,   of course, you know, my mom used to be a caterer.
And  during the holidays sometimes my mom,  she would make this big spread and she would invite the entire family over or  neighbors over,  but  that's where it started at.
It started at home  and  yeah.
Mom, thanks mom.
Oh yeah, I learn everything from my mom.
Mmm-hm.
Um,  I can say when I was younger I enjoyed cooking with my mom.
Like, my first time-  I think the first dish she taught me how to cook was macaroni and cheese.
When I was younger,  aroung thirteen, fourteen- it was fun.
But now  it's so aggravating, because my mom like, no you don't do that you do this, you know.
It's a little different now, it's like-  like, mom lemme do this I'm an adult now.
I- I know my taste buds, let me- let me do it, mkay, you just sit back now.
But, um,   making macaroni and cheese at the time,  it was really fun because  she was also  talking to- well she was teaching me how to make the recipe  but she was also telling me things about life.
You know, it's almost like a  counseling session, I guess.
Like, you- we would cook and talk about life,  and  that's one the things I can remember about  making that dish with my mom.
I- I remember most the things that we were  talking about, instead of   the recipe of the mac and cheese.
Granted, I still remember the recipe, but  just  talking to her about  you know, growing up and  talking about how to be a woman.
Talking about,  you know, whatchu gotta do when you get married and have kids, like, stuff like that I remember.
Mm,    I think I was four,  four or five  around that time.
Because me and RD-NAME-3 are four years ap-  no,  five years apart,  so I think around that time.
Not really.
Not really.
Mm-mm.
Um,   somewhat.
It's not as close like  him and RD-NAME-3.
You know, it's- it's different.
Um,  I wish it was closer, but it's- it's just not.
But, um,  he still my dad and I still love him.
Mm-hm.
That's a good question.
Um,    I can say it made us stronger even though  today now, we  don't eat together.
But,  you know, we still will go to war for each other.
Um,   not only that, I am grateful that we had that experience  of sitting at the table and eating around each other, because  it did make us stronger.
It did make us, you know,  unified, and we  actually learned a lot about each other, sitting at the table and fellowshipping.
Where now it's like,  okay well I know she's gonna eat this last piece of pork chop, or if she wants hocks on the pork chop,  so I'm just gonna leave it there on the side for her.
But,   we-  it did make us stronger  growing up,  because  kids nowadays  they- they don't even experience that, you know.
But, um,   yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Um,   I was- I think I was in middle school, I had  the strep throat, and my temperature was like-  it was up there.
It was like, one o three  I believe, to where the point  where they thought I was gonna die.
Um,  only thing I remember is  blacking out and not  feel anything.
Like, I thought I was sleep but  apparently  something else was going on.
But, um,   yeah.
I remember going to the hospital  and  the doctors was- wa- rushing in, and they was like, we gotta get her temp down because something  bad is gonna happen.
And m- I just remember my mom,  you know, having her hands on me and  praying over me, and I-  yeah.
That's all I r- remember really, but,  um,  I remember leaving the hospital.
My mom,   she said, girl you almost died on us, you know, and  I'm happy I prayed over you cause  they didn't think you were gonna make it out.
And,  But, um,  yeah.
That's- that's pretty much all I remember.
Um,  but before going to the hospital, I do remember passing out several times.
Um,  but yeah.
It was almost  like a blur,  to be honest.
And I was almost a little bit at peace.
You know, I really- honestly I felt like I didn't wanna  leave that peace  If that makes any sense.
But, um,  yeah.
That's what  I remember  almost dying.