Ten, ten  sixty-one.
How many people you done did this?
Take too long?
Okay.
Alright.
Wow.
Fifty-seven.
L- uh, Valdosta.
Lowndes.
Nope.
Hudson Docket.
Mm-hm.
South side.
Off and on?
Mm.
It's hard to say, cause I've been  traveling a lot.
And shoot, I stay maybe sometime maybe five year, ten year  leave, come back.
Uh.
So, I wen- Uh.
Yeah.
Most of my life.
I lived in  Maryl- Laurel, Maryland.
Mm-hm.
I've lived in Orlando.
I lived in Tampa.
St.
Petersburg.
Hm.
Florida.
Virginia Beach, Virgingia.
No.
Yeah.
W- And New York.
Uh-huh.
I was in Brooklyn.
It's somewhere- uh-huh, yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
Um.
Marching cat.
Trumpet  and tuba.
A- and- and a- in the concert season, I played the French horn.
Okay.
Um.
I'm disabled.
I like doing plumbing though.
Yeah.
Here.
Valdosta.
Mm-hm.
Hm?
Uh-huh.
Uh.
He's disabled too now, but he used to mix paint.
Housewife.
No.
Well, uh.
W- Actually,  when I was born, I was born in Hudson Docket.
Well man, my  parents  lost some- lost a kid.
So,  my mother,  okay.
My  biological parents, uh, she couldn't have me out there in Hudson Docket.
And I think I got them right.
Biological is what?
The, uh- Which parents are that?
That's the one that  birthed me?
Okay.
Yeah.
She couldn't have me out there in-  in Hudson Docket.
So, and then my  adopted parent,  they had just lost some ki-  a ch- a child,  and so my mom still  breast fed, you know,  fi- for the milk.
And they was all friends, so  they adopted me.
So, they go- had got me.
I didn't find out about until way- tw- when I was twenty-one.
But, anyway.
I was raised in a good family.
And they came and picked me up from Hudson Docket, and  I was raised on RD-ADDRESS-2 Street,  over there in Little Miami.
South Side.
And I was raised in a good family.
So.
No-  Well.
Dad was in the military.
And we did a lot of traveling.
when I was small, so.
But the house.
The house is nice, i- w- we had- I had my own room.
And then after there- mama done had me and I was coming up, she started having kids.
And so the house was nice  three be- two bedroom.
We added onto it later on, so.
It was nice.
I had a nice childhood.
I was blessed.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, we had plenty kids.
We- we always had the street.
It was just the neighborhood was just so nice that you could go to bed with the d- with the doors open at night.
And the kids would all play together,  everybody stuck together.
South side.
Little Miami.
Because it was just, uh,  the history is the like,  Miami was so nice back then.
And  our neighborhood was just real nice, like Miami was just  laid back, cool back then, of course, it's crazy now.
But,  back then, they just called it Little Miami.
It's on- On the south side of town, by, they called it,  the club used to be Fifth Inn,  and  uh,  Lake Park Road.
Yeah, li- down that way, going towards the school, uh,  Uh, south side- uh, Southeast Elementary, over in that way.
So, it's on that side of town.
Okay.
And what is that?
Troup Street?
Or wrong side-  Church's?
Yeah.
It's  Troup Street.
It runs down to the south, to the old  Lomax Pine Middle School.
That area was Little Miami.
Alright.
It's past that.
Come on down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In that area  to Forty-one.
And Eighty-four, yeah.
Coming up in that area, where the tobacco warehouses used to be.
Excuse me.
All up in there.
Oh yeah.
Yes, yes.
Lord, yes.
Uh, we got to school.
When we get out of school, you come home.
And  you got your homework, do what you have- got to do, and then you go  outside with the other fellas and stuff and-  oh man, we had a-  we- we was like,  we'd go out there, we had a little  wooded area, we called it little jungle.
And we used to make bow and arrows,  sling shots,  man, we had a nice childhood.
We- we- like, if we was in the wilderness,   we were gonna survive.
I'm serious.
We- we went fishing   in the canal, caught- and caught fish.
And so, and then after that, when it start getting dark, you know, then you-  Your parent, you can hear your parent, you can smell the food.
They already cooking the stuff, when they're getting ready for us to come in and bathe and all this and eat.
And if it getting too late, you can hear them.
They come out the door, they'll call out your name.
RD-NAME-2!
RD-NAME-1!
Y'all come home.
And we come out the woods, go home, and- and shoot.
And go home, bathe up, eat and  get ready for school the next day.
Oh yeah.
I got,  uh,  four brothers and two sisters.
I am the oldest.
Well, we all took care of each other.
Yeah.
Um, mama, like I said, she was a house wife.
So, basically, she took care of everything, but  we all just  we- we all got together.
I remember this time when, um,  I think, okay.
We was all on the sofa cause dad used to like to take  pictures of everything.
And, well we all had done fell asleep on the sofa and but and people had legs over somebody neck and somebody limb on their lap and this and that it was all.
I think it was about  four of us then.
And everybody's on the sofa asleep  in a- all together.
And  we ha- we came up in a good family, like I say.
RD-NAME-6  I went to kindergarten first.
Um.
Kindergarten was  Ms.RD-NAME-3.
Well, that lady, she was- she taught us how to do the ABC's and  One, Two, Three's and all of that.
And  and when you graduated,  it was about twenty of us  in a line  and we had our cap and gown  and your little diploma.
And you had to count  from one to a hundred  and say your ABC's  before you can-  leave, you know, to graduate.
And twenty-five of us,  I was standing there like there asleep.
But we're graduated.
From kindergarten.
I left kindergarten,  and I think that's when I went to RD-NAME-6.
Started at RD-NAME-6, that's when I started,  uh, the Four H Club and learned a little bit about electrician,  all this other stuff, and then, uh,  talked my dad into me buying- getting me a- renting me a trumpet.
And started  m- um beginning trumpet  at RD-NAME-6.
But,  me, I just knew  school was as good.
But it just wasn't for me.
It really wasn't for me.
But, I- I- I graduated and left.
Moved on.
Okay, RD-NAME-6, but I was  My main courses,    band,  PE, lunch,  science.
Love science, I love Star Trek, all that good stuff, man.
Because that was just interesting.
I just I always likeded  space.
I wanted to be the first black astronaut, but  these women.
And right until a woman girl ??- Anyway.
But, um,  yeah, those were my main courses.
Oh, 4-H?
Yeah.
The 4-H Club was  a little    class like thing.
It's a book and you could read  and it teaches you about  elect-  e-  it wa- it was just like a little club.
But, and then you- they g- they teach you  basic skills on electricity, you know.
Circuits, batteries,   uh, voltage,  wattage,  kilowatts,  all of that, and then  you just learn about  I know that- that's the main thing I learned was the electrician part on that.
But they taught other stuff too.
But I was more interested in electricity.
Got shocked plenty time.
Well.
Yeah.
And you can  lik- learn to power up the battery,  like,  I loved to take stuff up and put a battery in there.
I'd get a little  motor out of the battery,  I mean out of a- a car,  put two wires to it  the negative and the positive and see it spin.
Then, you make out what you- you come up with an idea of what you gonna do with the  motor  once you got it spinning.
So, I made a little  wooden boat.
Put the  motor to the back,  and put a little fan off a little helicopter  onto the motor.
Put the wires together, and it start spinning, put it in the water and let it take off.
Yeah, I'm real creative.
Yeah.
In elementary, I just-  my-  I just likeded to watch  music.
I've seen music.
And my uncle Keith,  he play the trombone.
So,  I didn't like doing my arm, while I listened to him, so I wanted something easy with three little valve thinking that was gonna be easy to play.
But actually, I found out, that that's really what- that's about the hardest thing you can do, you know, cause you got  your lips got to be in shape.
But, anyway.
That's why I got  into band, because  he played the trombone.
I wanted to play the trumpet.
So,  el- an-  immediate  uh, what in RD-SCHOOL-6, we got in beginning,  beginning band.
And a friend of mine, God bless the dead, RD-NAME-3.
He- me and him  we were playing g- in the band together.
Me and uh- playing the trumpet together in the beginning.
So  that's how I got interested in- in- in  playing the trumpet.
Yes.
I- ever since then, I was playing.
Well, we went from s-  RD-SCHOOL-6  to  high school.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I can't remember.
But I think it was segregated.
And w- it finally may have been integrated.
I- I- I can't remember that well.
Cause I really didn't pay attention to none of that.
Yeah, it was more enjoyable, we start, uh,    going on trips  and meeting  more women.
And more  everything the- a- and the, uh, grades and the classes was more interesting.
You know, y- y- ya- it done got up now to  that's when I started thinking about the space thing really.
Okay.
We get into science and-  and blowing stuff up and just  all kind of stuff.
It was fun.
And  band was extremely fun, I really loved that.
Um,  yeah, that basic- I'm telling you- cause high school,  it was okay, but  I ba- barely got out, I think I only made it to the  n-  uh,  I was a junior.
Sophomore.
I dropped out.
I made it though, I- I went the whole years and all my other friends graduated.
I was still in the band with them and all that stuff, but,  you know, like, cause then, you could go to  another grade  by passing that class.
But in the other class, they still held you back.
You know, but you could still go through  the whole school system, and make it up if you want to, but  I just  went on until I got tired.
Until, you know, it was time for me to go, everybody has to go to   Shoot, the class I'm in now, they graduated, I'm'a leave with them.
Mm.
You know.
So.
That's what I did.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was a lot different because see,  um,  I'm gonna say, in elementary,  they used to have little talent shows, so  me and RD-NAME-1, we was up  on the stage and we had this little  thing that we had to play, like a duet thing together, and  yeah, and we was in front  of everybody, and we had fun.
We- we played  that.
And so, you know, I'm saying shoot.
This is nice, you know, people liked us playing.
They enjoyed the, uh,  playing that we did.
I said, look like this gonna go somewhere.
So, when we get to high school, yeah, okay.
Now  beginner band  and we get to go on trips.
We- we had to go to Douglas for band camp.
Yeah.
For  Enjoyed that.
Yes, lord.
But, we  you know, you get to bond together and stick together, and get your, k- uh, uh, pride and all that good stuff.
Cause we were the spirit band.
Yeah.
I enjoyed that.
We'd say we are the spirit band, the mighty, mighty spirit band.
Everywhere we go,  people wanna know who we are, so we tell 'em.
And then, the uh,  Big Band, they was down there, that's where my uncle played the trump-  trombone.
We had our field line here, and then they had they field.
And  it was nice.
I enjoyed that and- and-  it was away from home  and crazy when they did they little initiation.
Yeah.
The big band initiated us.
Well, we  they- they stopped it because  the, uh, older kids, the big band, they were doing crazy stuff, they w- Putting Nair on somebody head.
And- and- all the hair came out.
Lord.
Me and,  uh,  RD-NAME-3, we  RD-NAME-6  he was gay.
He played trumpet.
We didn't want no gay person in our, uh,  band group.
In our  trumpet section.
But, god bless dead, we put that joker RD-NAME-3 in the dumpster.
Told him, he's gonna hafta, uh,  man up.
We put him in there thinking he was gonna get out.
Lord.
Here come lunchtime, we up  at lunch, everybody aksing, where's RD-NAME-3?
Anybody seen RD-NAME-3?
Me and RD-NAME-1 looked at each other, I said, um,  you think he still in there?
He said, I don't know.
So, somebody had to say something.
I said, sir, uh, um,  We just initiated him and we uh, we- we put him in- out there in the dumpster, to  thought he was gonna be done got out by now.
Shoot, I don't know he might be still there, I don't know.
Went there, he was still in there crying.
Boy they had us run around the building about a hundred time with our trumpet over our head.
But,  it was fun, uh, and  he still gay.
Didn't break him.
But, anyway.
Yeah, we just enjoyed the band.
It was fun.
Okay, well,  I ran too much.
They couldn't catch me.
They couldn't catch me.
But boy, they, uh, I ain't even gonna  uh- they- they did- they- they  they initiated me by putting me in a room with a white girl.
And nothing happened.
But, I told her you better say something happened.
You know, cause, I was- I'm being honest, I- I was really scared.
Uh.
I didn't have sex until I was  what?
Twenty?
Yeah.
I think was about nineteen or twenty.
Anyway.
I told her, you better say- say something.
That's how I got initiated in the Big Band.
Mm.
Well, after I left high school, that's when I was trying to  figure out what I wanted to be.
Oh lord, I b- I went- when I went to Orlando,  I-  Well,  first of all, I was here  and my dad worked at RD-WORK-4 mixing paint, so they let me  do delivering.
I delivered the paint to the auto shops.
And it boring.
So,  I w-  left, I went to Orlando,  I started doing irrigation.
That's how I got my earring.
Say, if you're on the earring- uh, if you're on the irrigation crew,  you had to have a earring in you.
And it was me, my cousin RD-NAME-3, uh  and some white- me and him was the only two black  and everybody else, it was about  six other white guys.
But, me and him, me and my cousin, we were the boss.
We was over them, Yeah, we come over and just  take over the place.
Try to take Orlando over, but they got a place for you.
Y- at Thirty-third Street Jail.
But I'll tell you about that later.
But, we enjoyed the, uh, irrigation crew.
We  did uh, Arnold k- Arnold Palmer Golf Course.
Putting down sprinkler systems out there.
Okay.
I stay- I stayed there for about five years.
Okay, that li- that taught me a little bit about plumbing.
And so, I say, oh this is interesting, I mean, this is da, da, da, da, it's okay.
So then, I moved back home.
Came home, got bored again.
I went up to uh,  Maryland.
I got to Maryland  and  stay got- got married.
And.
Excuse you- bless you.
So,  the wife I had, she was crazy.
She was money hungry.
I got to talk about this?
Okay.
Okay.
I- Well you was saying about tell me about.
Yeah.
How did I get interested i- in- in plumbing.
That's Yeah.
We got a divorce, I go- got married again.
Oh no.
I- I came- I c- I came home.
I know RD-NAME-2 told me say I'd be a interesting character this.
So, anyway.
I've been through it child.
I'm'a tell you.
Up and down the East Coast.
So, anyway, uh,  I came back  Maryland, I was doing plumbing.
for myself.
Yeah.
I- I-  when I was left the irrigation, uh s-  I already know a little plumbing because of  coming up in the neighborhood.
I'm sorry.
Lemme back up there.
Uh, my friend, RD-NAME-2 daddy was a, uh,  plumber.
His brother, RD-NAME-2 Junior, he was the first state black  master plumber in South Georgia.
And RD-NAME-2, his brother that- um,  he was a plumber.
So, we all used to help them.
And that's how I actually basically got  into the plumbing.
Because I said nice people I like this.
I said, it's kind of crazy,  crawling up under the house,   and don't know what's under there.
But,  I l- I started liking it.
And that's when I start- when I moved and went to  Maryland.
And I was doing plumbing over there too.
And, well I was actually a handyman.
Had my own slogan.
RD-NAME-1 the handyman.
Plumbing, electrician, carpentry,  there's nothing I can't do  but have a baby.
One thing I ain't gonna do, have no plan with a man.
Okay.
Put them flyers out, people started calling me.
Putting on break shoes and doing everything, all this and that, but  that's when I got-  kind of got hurt.
From my knee and stuff and all that.
And I  applied for disability,  and it came through when I was in Maryland.
So.
But I still was doing my little plumbing, I done- I enjoyed that.
So, that's how I got interested in plumbing.
Then, I wanted to open up my own  business so I started working for myself.
Yeah.
M- e- exactly.
I- I- I would say, uh,  I'm'a say like, um,  thirty year.
Master plumber.
Yup.
Uh, it is thirty-two years.
Something like that.
I'm fifty-seven.
Thirty- forty- Yeah.
You're right.
You can add good can't you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I came back here and- and- and  um, lemme see.
No, that was my last wife.
I skipped one.
No.
She lived in New York.
Yeah.
I w- I left New York- Okay, went to New York and then went to Maryland.
That's my te- cause Maryland was my last wife.
I skipped one.
My first wife was my kids- oh god.
We going way back.
I'm skipping all over the place but anyway.
My children's- I star- I got married to  girl name RD-NAME-2, we still married.
Man, this is crazy.
We still married.
We, uh,  got three kid  together.
Um.
Two boys, one girl.
She got on drug, went to prison.
She killed a man, she went to prison, I had the kid.
Raised the kids  until they got about grown.
And then,  she- while she was in prison,  and I had went to Florida,  and the kids were about grown.
I called myself filing for a divorce.
So, I paid the man and  he said, well, here's your papers, you divorced.
That's when I came back  and I met the girl doing plumbing from New York.
RD-NAME-2 God bless, she's dead now, god bless the dead, but.
We got married and I moved- went to New York for a little while and  we came back and  and me and her  and then the kids, they was still with me a little bit.
And her and my daughter didn't get along, so  anyway.
Me and her got divorced.
Then, I met the one from Maryland.
And I met her in  well, I moved to Maryland with her for a while.
Then we got married up in Maryland.
And  she was a gold digger.
And so I left her,  came back home.
Come to find out  me and my wife was still married.
Yeah.
And I didn't know it.
Ain't by- we did, but  all the other divorces was-  is legal, so.
But actually wasn't never married to 'em.
Crazy.
Hey RD-NAME-2.
How you doing?
Yeah, so.
Basically,  that's it, going up and down the east coast on all of that, so.
Whe- when I got here.
Yeah.
I went to the court house.
I was going cause I said I got to check on this cause I got all  the other two divorces.
I said, I need my paperwork on  my first divorce with my wife.
So, when I got there, they said sir, no, you don't have any papers, y- uh.
You s- you and RD-NAME-2 still married.
I said, okay.
And I eased on out of there.
Hey, cause he I couldn't say nothing about I been married  twice.
I ain't wanna get locked up.
So, anyway.
That's how I found out I was still married.
And so.
I ain't trying to get married no more.
Yeah.
I'm through on that.
That's all I got to say about that.
Yes.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
I had to cause you started.
Yes.
And that came.
Ok- thank you.
Yes ma'am.
Mm.
Should I say it?
Ye- Yeah I'll say it, okay.
I crawl up under the house and a bunch of mess, fleces and all this other stuff and all that, but-  but, see, you charge enough to make you wanna do it.
So,  I told the lady six hundred dollars.
But, God is good.
He'll put a ram in the bush for you.
So,  I looked under there, I see- had- it's a trailer.
And it had the pipe came a-loose and it was like a big swimming pool of fleces and mess, all this stuff, tissues, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I  strapped up, put my rubbers on, everything on, mask,  gloves.
uh.
Everything.
Got some bleach.
And, uh,  first of all, I- I told her, I say, uh,  I can fix it, I can come back,  let it dry up and c- and come.
She said no, I need it fixed today.
So, I say, well,  uh,  it gonna cost you about six hundred dollars.
She say, fix it.
I said, oh damn.
Okay.
So that's when I did all that suiting up and everything and I said, now, I sure don't wanna crawl in all this mess.
But that's six hundred dollars, saying want more need more.
And that's when the lord ge- put the ram in he bush.
I said, w-  who little swimming pool that is over there in the corner?
It's a little small little kid's swimming pool.
She say, you can have it.
Use it if you wanna.
So, I got it, put the two bottles of bleach in there, and I  pushed it all the way up  until it got to all that sludge.
I got in there with my shovel like I'm on a- on a boat  and just scooted up under here, slinging bleach.
I got right up to the pipe,  s- wired it up,  put it back together, glued it up.
Wired it back up under the hou- under the trailer.
Backed up out of there, throw on some more bleach,  and I told her, I said, go flush the toilet three times with toilet paper.
I'm looking at it with the flashlight,  and she did it and  no leaks.
I said, now go get my cash.
She said, check or ca- I said cash.
I don't want no check.
So, she went and got me six hundred dollars.
Now, another crazy one we had.
It was easy.
We was gonna do this job for the lady free.
Wasn't getting the hot and cold water coming out of the  kitchen sink, so it's-  we already- we know it's the aerator.
Screw the top off, and  a little cap off the front,  and the water come out, had a little piece of rust in there.
We gets to the house, she say,  it's about time for y'all to get here.
Y'all probably out somewhere drinking.
You're ju- I've got to get my kitchen, I need to do these greens.
And y'all up there playing, cussing us out.
RD-NAME-2 say,  RD-NAME-2, I'm'a show you something.
People like this one here, this when you get paid.
He screwed the thing off, he showed me how the water come out, I said, that's it?
He said, yeah.
He said, but watch this.
I want you to go outside.
I'm'a beat on the pipes,  and you- and I'm'a ask you, do you see it?
And you say,  No.
So, I'm outside, she in there,  he beating on the pipe,  he said, do you see it?
I said, no!
He say,  come on in.
I came inside,  he say- we say, well  ma'am,  we got to go get some parts.
We'll be back.
Well, hurry up!
Y'all go get it and come on back, I got to get my kitchen ready.
Yes ma'am.
We went and did another job.
The other job's out, we came back  he'd say, well  RD-NAME-2, go out there and see, do you see it.
He beating on the pipes again.
Just making noise in there so she could thinks we really working.
You see it?
I say, no!
He'd said, come one back in.
Come back in,  said, ma'am, it's rough in here.
We got to get some more parts, but uh, we'll be back again.
Hold on.
Said, y'all need to hurry up.
She just started cussing us out.
This time, we went and got drunk us a couple of beers.
Sit down under the tree.
Chill out.
Now,  we went back to the job,  and this time, he just screwed it back on.
You know.
He said, you see anything?
I say, yeah!
So he said, come in.
I came in,  he said, ma'am, it were rough.
But we got you straight.
Come in here and check your water.
Came in there, she turned on.
It's about time for y'all so and so's to get through.
How much you owe me?
He said three fifty.
Yes.
But she cussing us out.
Talking about we sorry so and so's and  you probably somewhere drinking so we had us a couple of beers, cause she said that.
We were gonna do it for free.
So, he charged her three fifty.
We split it.
R- that's what happened when people  I mean, not only us why-  r- other- other folk do it too.
But.
N-  check- that's- that's like I said, craziest.
And  it just a lot of stuff I done went through.
Went under houses, done seen snakes.
Only thing I'm scared of is spiders, though.
Can't stand them.
I had to bust a hole in the side of a house  to crawl up under there.
A brick wall.
Got to break the brick wall to  get up under there.
And after all this  breaking these bricks, you would think  all the noise and the  dust that I'm making s-  if anything's under there, they'll be gone.
So, all the- when I got the hole big enough to look under there,  I seen a spider about big as my hand.
I told the people, I said look, I'll- I- I'll be back.
Go get- I went and got about five bombs  and threw up under the house and  told them I'd be back tomorrow.
Man that was crazy, see that spider still sitting there after you done did all this beating on the wall.
And he ain't ran no where.
Like he's sitting there waiting on you.
And so,  that was crazy.
And.
Shoot.
It just  you just run into a lot of things doing plumbing, especially um- up under them houses.
I think that why I like it, it's interesting.
I might come pot o- pot of gold one day under one of them, I hope.
And then I'll retire.
Semi retired now.
Oh, of co- every day.
And night.
Church  day  church at night  on Sundays.
Wednesday,  bible study.
Um.
Yeah, well our family, we had a good tradition.
Christmas, we all got together,  Uh, we used to go  get together for family reunions in Jacksonville.
Used to go to the beach.
That was fun.
You know, we likeded that because everybody  got-  made food, and we all went to the beach,  got together  prayed, do all that.
Go to  play in the water  Get to know everybody.
And then,  it got crazy because, hey, everybody want- it's all about money now.
This much for a family, this much for a shirt.
This much for this and that.
Where the extra money go at?
Somebody tell me that.
All these people spending all this money,  and it- I know it's gonna be something extra.
I just stopped going.
So, you know, now they doing the Facebook  stuff and all that.
So,  I don't do that.
But, we- our family traditions, got together on Christmas, everybody get together, but then, when we got married,  people started venturing off.
You know, you ma- i-  you didn't gather up anymore.
You got a different family, you got to go with them.
Go with them, but then you'll stop by  later on and say hey.
You know.
But,  family still stick together.
Um.
What else?
Oh, I got two families too.
I forgot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I never did meet-  I met my m-  uh,  biological mother when I was twenty-one.
And that was crazy.
Enjoyable  and  scary.
Uh.
I went to this  job corps, Summersville, Kentucky  I had two birth certificates.
And  when I got there, it was so- it was not- I was like  I went  in job corps, and  I met this little girl again.
There we go again, no women, all women, such and such.
So, we's talking.
And the lady called me to the desk.
She say,  cause me and her like, okay.
Y- yo man, you gonna be together.
A- yeah, yeah, yeah.
She called me to the desk, she say, Mr.
RD-NAME-4, come to the desk, I get there, she say,  we got a problem.
I say, what's wrong?
She said, what's your mother's name?
I say RD-NAME-3.
They say, what's your father name?
I say RD-NAME-3.
She said, yeah, but you got a original birth certificate says that your mother name is RD-NAME-7.
I said, I don't know her.
She said, and plus, it says that you're a year older, so you won't be able to be here.
We got to send you back home.
I say what  the hell going on?
Look back at the girl, I said, damn I need to stay.
But,  I had to go home.
I called mom,  she said  uh,  they gonna send you home?
I said, yes ma'am.
Said, I'll tell you about it when you get here.
Alright.
I gets back to Valdosta, they done made arrangement for me to meet my mother.
Okay.
RD-NAME-7, okay, so,  I get to meet her, and  But she- she was taking s- a while.
Guess she getting herself ready to meet me too, you know, cause it's  I had- in my first time, really.
She used to come and see me when I was smaller, they told me, but  I didn't know who she was, so.
So, I guess she was getting a-  prepared to see me, so I'm looking around at all the pictures in the house,  and I'm like  okay, I know them, I-  I know her.
Now, who is that?
Who is that?
So, when she finally came in the room, I-  I gave her a hug and  talked a little bit, aksed some questions, and this and that, and so.
I got straight to the pictures.
I say, we- well- wh- who- who is this?
Well, that's your brother RD-NAME-1.
Well who is that?
That's your sister RD-NAME-2.
Your sister, um,  god, what her name?
Allo- uh,  RD-NAME-2  Can't think of my other sister name cause I hadn't been around, so.
I said, well who is this lady right here?
Oh, that's your brother wife.
I said, oh thank god.
Cause I had been with her.
And I was like now I hope I wasn't with my sister.
So.
they- though they have to tell people wha- what, you know, y- you coming up adopted, don't know people-  but then I say, oh that's your brother wife, well I say okay.
Oh, thank god.
It wasn't my sister.
So, that's how I got to meet my other family.
And I still stop by and see her.
She's around down the street from us.
I can see her every now and then.
But, I just didn't  spend too much time with my fam- wi- with my- uh,  biological family.
So, that's how I got  two mothers.
Okay.
They're still living.
And a daddy.
Okay.
What else?
Let's move on.
Yeah.
A lot.
When I was up in Maryland, lith- like you say, you know.
When I came back here, i- it's like I'm in the country.
You know, I loved it up there, i- i- a- it's  you don't hear all these trains.
The trains are starting to blow the horns more.
Oh lord, and this craziness with these people.
It- yeah.
It's a lot changed that  I don't like.
But,  I gotta live here until I leave again.
T-  traffic.
Nosey people.
Drama, drama, just  Westside, period.
Wild wild west.
It's crazy.
It- I mean, it ain't as crazy as it used to be, they ain't all that shooting and stuff like they used to, but  it goes on, but  it just these folks over here is just too nosey.
I mean, cause I don't care.
As long as they don't put their hands on me, I-  I don't care what they say.
They could talk about me,  point their fingers at me,  an m- might even throw a rock at me, but it better not hit me.
But, yeah, I don't care, cause they don't do nothing for me, We stayed, I told you, it was like nice.
Yeah, we didn't w- y- we didn't do anything, yeah, everybody helped out each other.
Well.
Well, some of it, I don't know nothing about that part, but we was- our neighborhood where we were  that's where we stayed at.
We didn't- we didn't go  all out there  adventuring.
And our neighborhood was nice.
Uh.
Back- especially back then.
Now, now?
I don't know.
I ain't been over there in some year.
So.
And then,  shoot.
We used to race up and down the street.
Ra- ride the bicycles, you know, like I said, we was doing stuff that  kids do.
M- make cakes,  bow and arrows,  steal your mama grease in a pan, after you kill a bird, go out in the woods and cook him.
You know.
That what kids supposed to do back then, you know, ye- suppo- they should do that now, but their laptop computer and all that stuff,  ain't doing nothing.
Shoot.
But I loved, like I said, the science stuff.
I loved that, so.
I was always doing some kind of experiment and stuff and all that with  chemicals and  the batteries and sh- Yeah, I did that too.
Like, I say, I was the handy man, it wasn't nothing I can't do  but have a baby.
But,  I just did not.
I mean, I- I did until it get to the point now, I'm getting too old for all that.
I just love my plumbing.
That's it.
That's the main thing I like doing.
Plumbing.
I got another see   I got another, uh, slogan.
Uh.
The P- RD-NAME-1 the plumber,  he lay pipes, screw it tight, do it right, they'll call you back all night.
Oh.
Terrible.
Slogan?
Oh, that be- uh, ooh, it been about two- four years ago.
I'd say, RD-NAME-1 the plumber man, he lay pipe,  he screw it tight,  he do it right,  and they'll call you back all night.
But see  I'm just being serious now.
I'm being honest with you.
Plumbing ain't nothing but like sex, seriously.
You got a male adapter, you got a female adapter,  you got the uh, lubricant, you got the glue.
You got  the uh,  caulking.
You got  the screw.
You got to screw it together, you got to glue it together, you got to s-  make sure it's tight.
That's a- I mean.
That's all it is.
Be honest.
And that's what they taught me whe- when I was doing the plumbing.
They say, hey, you know, and always remember,  S-H-I-T always flow downhill.
You know.
Got to make sure you follow up proper.
And then, you got to learn about a little Christian part of it too.
Go to heaven,  it's cold.
That's right.
Go to Hell.
Hot.
That's left  So,  don't ever get your pipe cro- crossed up.
Put the cold  on the hot  cause it ain't hot in Heaven.
Yeah.
So, you always had your  cold on the right side, think about heaven  on the right  go right, turn right, keep straight.
You wanna go Hell, it's hot.
It's on your left side.
Go turn left  and be bad, you gonna burn.
Okay.
Got it?
Well, plumbing's e- pretty easy.
Simple.
Especially when now, we got the PVC pipe that you could just  glue and screw and  You know.
And they have even made it easier now, with these picks.
But, it's more expensive.
And the thing about it is, some people don't wanna pay.
It's li- Hm?
It's a lot better.
Shoot.
Back a days, they used to have to, uh, heck,  they galv-  cast galvanized pipe,  that's an iron pipe.
They- and they have to do a measurement,  they had this machine that  had to thread it,  to- to screw it in, to make sure that everything alright.
Now, all we do is just glue,  cut, and screw.
And- and  wire it up, band it up,  shoot, you'd be finishing by-  you could do a whole house in less than a day.
And back then, it probably took them a week,  maybe two.
But, that's why I like it so much, it's- it's real easy now,   simple.
All you gotta do is just  you can just watch it.
Just look at it as an observer, you can-  and- and you would see how it work, it's e-  it's easy.
Sometime.
Anyways, yeah.
Sometime you have to work on it for a whole week, for real, until you get it right.
It's all good.
I love it.
Watch Star Trek.
Because I wanted to be the first black astronaut.
And tha- But-  But see, the- all it's doing is showing you what the future's gonna be.
Okay, go back to  uh, the Star Trek the Next Generation is the update.
Back in the day, when we had Star Trek,  we had  dial phones,  And Captain Kirk  always had pulled out his little phone, little-  ain't nothing but the- uh, cell phone.
Flip phone.
Say Kirk say  Kirk beam me say- what he say, Scotty, beam me up.
Everybody, oh that's so fake, find that ain't nothing.
Now after a while, what you see?
Flip phone come out.
So,  they were teaching you  that what is gonna- the future gonna be.
Now,  Star Trek Next Generation and Voyager,  those are  Star pe- i- in the ships going through  galaxies.
And that's what it's gonna be in the future.
They already trying to send people to Mars.
They might be there, we don't know.
You know.
I mean, it's a lot of stuff.
I- I mean, I- I've seen a UFO before.
It was scary.
We was in the woods.
At k- we used to camp out  in the woods, and stuff, you know, with a fire and all that.
And seen some strange lights come up and it just came and stopped.
And it wasn't no sound.
You know, I don't know if it was military or something or whatever, but I know  it came up over them trees and it just stopped.
And we tried to put the fire out and stuff , we couldn't put it out, but  it just stood there.
And I wasn't drinking, I wasn't smoking.
So,   I know it was real.
And after a while, we seen it move on a little bit more, and it went u- up into the air  and it just zoomed off.
Oh man, I think I was about,  what,  twenty-five  round about twenty-five.
We were back there on the farm.
This wa- this was here.
Out there in Mineola.
Out there on our farm.
We used to go out there and camp out on the farm.
But,  Uh.
Yeah.
That's so every- I- I just- I believe in the UFO's.
I believe in the- in the  Star Trek, because  Apollo  Thirteen  capsule, uh  spaceship.
A rocket really wa- it was a rocket.
And they went up  went to the moon.
I remember, my grandmother  She used to say, RD-NAME-1, are they going up there for real?
I'd say, yes ma'am.
She'd say, they ain't supposed to be doing that.
Trying to go up there with God.
I say, yes ma'am, but that's just the future, g- my dear.
They going up there.
That's science.
And everything else about to change too.
She said, well I don't wanna be here when it change.
And so she-  she passed on.
But  that's the future, you got these cars going now, what,  uh, by theyself.
Hell, how many fatalities now?
E-  really?
I know, I heard- read about two.
Yeah, I know that.
Tha- see, that's what's happening with the space program.
Lot of people died until they got it right.
And that's wha- how life goes, you know, you gonna,  they gonna keep on doing stuff until they try to perfect it, so somebody gonna die.
Somebody got to be the crash dummy.