RD-NAME-5 February eighteenth.
nineteen eighty-two.
Valdosta.
South Georgia Medical Center.
No.
I lived, uh, on the East Side of Valdosta.
On, RD-ADDRESS-3.
No.
RD-SCHOOL-5 RD-SCHOOL-9.
Hm.
Educator.
He was born in Lakeland, Georgia.
About twenty miles  east of Valdosta.
She was born in Valdosta as well.
Yeah.
My dad is, uh, retired from Valdosta State University.
He's a full-time pastor.
He, uh, started out working as a-  a bus driver and a custodian,  but he ended his career as  one of the,  uh, copy technicians  in the print shop.
My mother, uh, retired after  over thirty-five years in, um,  the school system.
For Valdosta City schools.
She, uh, s-  has taught,  uh,  fifth grade and second grade.
Nah, she was second grade when she retired and she started fifth grade and  did the last four or five years in second grade.
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, cause you were- yeah, you were gone.
Well my childhood home was, uh, one that was,  um, very structured.
Uh, it was very loving.
It was  an anomaly,  uh, uh, at the time because  I had two parents in the home.
Um,  of course, um,  my- my mom,    my mom was in education.
And, um,  my dad worked at  VSU so they both had  stable jobs that, may not have been  well paying, but  at the end of the day, they were sufficient to, uh,  you know, take care of my brother and myself.
I am.
It's three year difference.
Uh, my neighborhood, um,  changed over time, uh, when  I was very small,  uh, the demographics of the neighborhood was  mixed.
Uh, we had some, um,  African American families on the street.
We also had some caucasian families on the street.
Uh, it was very-  you know, nice neighborhood,  but over time as,  uh, different things began to change,  um,  some people,  moved out of the neighborhood.
Um, some of the older people in the neighborhood passed away.
And  it became, uh,  an area for,  um, drugs and sometimes  violence.
Uh, so much so,  that the  local bowling ally that was across the street from my house became the hangout spot  for folks that wanted to  do and  deal drugs.
So much so  that  the bowling ally went out of business.
Yep.
I think that most of it was because of the fact that-  I think that the- the  type of people who  lived in the housing projects changed.
Um, because, uh, the people that lived in the housing projects when I-  when we were growing up at first,  were people who were using,  uh, that Valdosta Housing Authority to be a stepping stone to something else.
Then we started to get people who did not mind,  uh, living in low income housing and  just settled into  that lifestyle  that is, uh,  very much,  uh, can be stagnant if you  choose not to  do something different.
And so,  as- as the nature of people.
And things they wanted out of life changed,  so did the neighborhood.
I will say,  that somewhere between  nineteen ninety-three and nineteen ninety-five.
Um,  at the times that was, uh, pretty much,  um,  instrumental for me because that was the time that I was  going from  elementary to  middle school.
And, um, a lot of things changed in Valdosta in the early nineties because  the, uh, population boomed so much so that,  uh, Valdosta  State College, became Valdosta State University.
And Valdosta began to grow.
And they adopted the middle school concept,  which  changed a lot of  things  as well.
Because once they changed the  concept of how,  uh, schooling was done, and how  students were,  um,  separated.
You started to see  people become more comfortable  in their lifestyles.
Because they no longer had to  mix, to go to Valdosta Junior High School.
We-  bi- basically had,  what I would consider to be  a legal,  um,  segregation,  because  when they, built  uh, JL Newbern Middle School,  they built it  to serve the students-  the children who lived on the East Side  and the South Side of town.
Which,  was where  ninety-eight percent of the African Americans lived.
And that was where the low- where the socioeconomic status  was lower.
And so,  people  just  settled in.
And  took over the neighborhood.
Well,  I was able to go to RD-SCHOOL-6 simply because,  uh, my mother worked  in the school system.
And at that time,  if you had,  um, a parent  that worked in the school system,  uh, you were able to,  uh,    go to  the school  of your choice.
And of course  we lived on  the East Side of town and  I should have gone to  a different elementary school,  but  I went to the elementary school where my mother worked.
And I left there and went to,  um,  RD-SCHOOL-3 which at the time was fifth and sixth grade.
Which was,  the  School that was fed by RD-SCHOOL-4 where I went to school.
And I went from there to RD-SCHOOL-5.
So I just  took the streamline  of schools from the places where  my mom worked,  rather than where I lived.
School was, um, it was fun.
And I,  um,  I- I liked school because it gave me an opportunity to.
um, like I said, escape some of the things that were going on, in  my neighborhood.
Um,  it were- it was things that were  occurring in my neighborhood that  I could see,  but because of, uh,  my parents,  I didn't get a chance to  become involved in it  because they were- they were very much,  uh, strict about,  uh,  what we did and,  uh,  where we went.
And I- I really think that it was,  uh, their oversight that really helped  to  you know, shape  and mold me into the person that I became.
Um, I-  I, um,    pretty much liked everything at school.
Um,  as far as, uh,  memories, um, there was,  uh, at that time,  you know it.
We- we had a lot of fun at school.
Because, you know, we  actually  enjoy learning.
Um, I r-  remember doing some things that,  um,  probably twenty-five, thirty years ago,  that,  um,  would mirror some of the things that we do today.
Um,  we,  would have, you know,  themed parties, uh, when  it was Dr.
Seuss's birthday.
We did all of those things.
When we  read Green Eggs and Ham in kindergarten, we had green eggs and ham.
When,  it  was  St.
Patricks Day,  we had the leprechaun to turn everything over in the room and I- it's just all types of things.
And when we had birthdays,  in our classrooms we  had parties at school.
We had a party for  all of the holidays.
And that's something now that we don't do because we have so many people that will say  you know,  it's celebrating Christmas offends me, or  celebrating Halloween offends me, or  I'm offended by this, or I don't think we should do that.
School was a whole lot simpler.
And it was a lot of fun.
RD-SCHOOL-3, uh, was, um,  it was more of the same.
Um, I had some  very good teachers.
Um,  had a-  uh, a lot of  people who  really, uh, were  all about the students.
They  pushed everyone to do  you know, their very best.
And that's not to say that any of the other schools did not do that,  but  uh, I can only speak about the schools that I attended.
And,  um, you know.
I- I- I pretty had, uh, a- a very  um, good  time in elementary school.
You know, up to sixth grade.
At,  uh, RD-SCHOOL-3.
Um, we  took field trips a lot of times that would,  allow us to not only  learn about what we were learning in the classroom, but if there was somewhere in the community, or somewhere  close by that we could go on a field trip and actually do some hands on things,  uh, we did those things a lot.
And so,  it's  it's someth- some things that  you know, are- are memories that  you know, as long as I live I'll  probably never forget.
Um,  I- I remember, um, in sixth grade,  uh,  learning about  the  Medieval periods of, uh, time with the  knights and jousting and,  um,  different things like that.
And I remember that one of our trips,  was to  Orlando to Medieval Times.
So that we could-  m-  uh, see,  uh, a dinner show.
Oh man, I remember going.
And  that was the- one of the first times that I've ever had,  um,  Cornish hen and I just thought  that was the best thing in the world.
Because I- you know, I came home and told my mom I had,  uh,  a chicken that was-  that would fit in my hand and I- I didn't know, y- really the difference between a Cornish hen and a chicken.
And,  uh, I still don't cause they  taste the same.
No I- I haven't.
Haven't had Cornish hen since then, but  I- I mean you know, if I  was offered some Cornish hen, I probably would take it.
Yes.
Well  it-  it wasn't new,  uh, because, you know  w-  w- They just changed the name from RD-SCHOOL-6 to  RD-SCHOOL-5.
And it wasn't any different for me,  because  I-  I was going-  I was going there anyway if they had not changed, um,  to the middle school concept because  they changed to middle school,  as I was going to seventh grade, so what actually happened,  is that  the  fifth and sixth grade classes at  RD-SCHOOL-3  all left.
And they got  two totally new groups.
That next year.
So, uh, it wasn't that much of a change for me.
It was  somewhat of a change, because you went from having two academic teachers to having four.
And having some freedom to  walk down the hallway by yourself.
And  pass notes.
And get notes.
And  do all types of things that other people did that I didn't do.
And that's exactly how that goes.
My fondest memory in middle school,  let me- let me think.
Middle school,  um, I- I think that  middle school was  the- the best thing about middle school was,  um, probably  getting to meet,  um, a lot of people  that  I wouldn't  that- that I hadn't met before.
Because going to-   excuse me.
Going to  um,  middle school,  from elementary,  brought a lot of people  from the other elementary schools  to,  um, RD-SCHOOL-6  at the same time.
So it was  a change, because I was accustomed to  the  other children that I had gone to school with from kindergarten.
But when we started seventh grade,  not only did I have  those,  I had  many more.
And so,  uh, most of the time, um,  most of my fondest memories probably happened  in the gym  where, uh, a lot of,  um,  basketball games.
or-  when we were outside,  baseball games  got  rather intense.
And so we- we always looked forward to  going to PE.
And, you know.
Sometimes on m- on my way to PE, I would run into people that I wouldn't see,  uh, during the day.
And that was, uh,  time to  socialize, because there were no  teachers walking you everywhere.
So ther- that was social time.
And I think that's probably what  my fondest memory of  middle school was, was that.
We had so much time to be social.
I did not.
I  sang, uh,  in-  in the chorus.
And,  uh, that was pretty much it.
Because I- I really wasn't, um,  I wasn't really into sports.
Uh, I did, um,  liked to play basketball, but  I didn't have  the time,  or the interest in commuting to  playing basketball on the team.
I just liked to play,  um,  m- pick-up games.
And so I was never one of those people that  just needed to be on the team.
But I- I enjoyed  playing basketball.
And softball too.
I think  we met  well we met at RD-SCHOOL-6.
And I  w-  would venture to say,  that  I think it was  the year that I was in eighth grade, and you were in seventh.
And,  uh, I think that's h- that's how we, uh, ran into each other, uh, through  a mutual friend.
.
I don't think so.
High school,  was  a- probably about  a hundred times more social.
Because, again,  uh,  I  had spent  two years  at RD-SCHOOL-6.
And got to know a whole lot of new people,  but when we went to high school,  I met everybody else that- that I would ever  come to know because  the students who  went to, uh, Southeast when I was at RD-SCHOOL-3,  And went to RD-SCHOOL-4 while I was at RD-SCHOOL-6,  they showed up  on the first day of ninth grade  at RD-SCHOOL-5.
And  it was just great.
Um,  the classes were, uh, challenging,  uh, more so than they had ever been.
But I think that, um, as far as high school went,  it at least-  my freshman year was, uh, it was- it was fun.
And I- I think  that,  uh, a lot of the memories that I  had from ninth grade,  uh, wa-  was because of the fact that many of us, um, just  sought to make the best out of a  somewhat bad situation because we had some  personnel issues that were not-  that did not involve the students.
But  the disagreements,  uh, had a profound effect on the students.
And  that's  something that, uh, I- I've learned.
Uh, from that day to this one, that when  adults have issues that they  should resolve their issues.
And don't let  their issues become issues for,  uh, the students that they serve.
No, um, it was  the superintendent  and  the high school principal.
Yup.
Yes.
Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
He was- he wa- he was there my ninth grade year.
And  it was s- something that,  or, what- what- what ended up,  being  the quote unquote  issue  was something that had to do  with dress code.
A disagreement that became public, between he  and the superintendent at the time.
Um,  RD-NAME-4, who  at last,  of my knowledge, was,  um,   he was a- he's in charge of  the RD-WORK-8 Commission.
So he, uh, oversees all of the certifications for,  uh,  educators, uh,  at this time.
But at that time he was,  uh,  in Valdosta and he  brought some changes, uh,  that were-  that he thought was innovative.
And they may have been.
But,  um,  a lot of his, uh,  policies  were not popular with  the,  uh,  administration and the staff at  RD-SCHOOL-5.
And  the students were  in between.
My favorite subject in high school was probably,  um, history.
Uh, I  ran into  my, um,  world history teacher about  a month ago.
And  everything that he ever taught me, I- I never forgot.
And he was probably my favorite teacher in high school.
Mr.
RD-NAME-1 Yeah.
He ga- he gave me candy every week.
And the- but that was not why he was  my favorite teacher, uh, I  vividly remember, um,  he had a practice that would probably get  him fired,  if he was working today.
Because he  arranged his classroom  in such a way, that the students who perform well,  on the assessments,  were sitting in the front of the classroom.
And those who didn't do so well,  were sitting in the back.
And I understood his method because he  wanted to be sure that those,  that wanted to learn  were in a place where they could  learn what they need to learn.
And those who were just coming because  they were not old enough to drop out.
And they were not interested.
They sat in the back.
Um, but  actually one of the  most profound things that,  uh,    I got from Mr.
RD-NAME-1 was actually  one day when he scolded me.
Um, because usually,  my performance on assessments was  better than anybody else's.
And I remember one-  one day,  we took a test.
And the next day when we came in,  to find out the results  of our test grades,  if I'm not mistaken there were  two other students  who scored better than I did.
And  they were excited because  the entire semester,  the whole school year they had not  scored higher than I did on a test.
And the only thing he said to me,  was that  you should never  allow anybody to  move you from  where you know you should be.
And  although,  only two people did better than you,  don't-  don't ever let me see you  settle for being second.
And  I never forgot it.
And every time that I  go to do something,  those words resonate with me.
Don't ever let  anyone put you out of the position that  you know you should be in.
And never accept second.
But I sure wish I had one of those Snicker bars right about now.
Yup.
That was part of it.
Um, I- you know- I-  I just enjoy history.
I always did.
Liked social studies.
And,  uh, he- he inspired me along with, um,  w-  All of my teachers had a profound impact on me, but  it was my- my history teachers that  always, you know,  pushed me, uh, to do  well.
And even teachers that I didn't have,  uh, that,  um,  knew me,  or,  um,  would see me around, would know that I was, you know  very much interested in history.
I w-  used to read the textbook.
And  I would also read extra, uh, books to gain more knowledge.
Because I-  I- I don't feel like you- you can really be  cognizant of what's going on in the world  at the present  if you don't have an understanding of  why things are like they are.
So I- I've always been,  A person that was very much interested in history.
That was  my tenth grade year.
So that was,  nineteen ninety-eight.
So that's almost been twenty years.
I don't.
Other memories that I have of high school,  uh, I- I remember, um,  some of my,  um, attempts at being  sociable.
That sometimes went well, and sometimes they didn't.
But  the ones that went well are- are ones that  really really stick out.
Well,  there was this  girl,  that I got to know,  in middle school.
And I left her in middle school, but  when she got to high school, we  resumed our friendship.
And  it's  a friendship that continues to this day.
And I-  I really feel that through all the difficulties and the different changes that  we were both going through in the last twenty-five years,  we've  always just managed to  keep in contact with each other and  you know it wa- a lot of things that I- that I experienced  in life.
The high points.
You know we were- we were there for each other and even sometimes in  low points,  we've been there, but  I dare not share her name.
I chose to go to RD-SCHOOL-3 because of the fact that,  um,  they  have very good programs at, um, RD-SCHOOL-3.
At the time that I graduated from high school,  um, RD-SCHOOL-4 was, uh, very much, uh, one of the  rising institutions  in, uh, the state of Georgia.
We were about  three and a half, uh, four years removed from,  um,    the Atlanta Olympics.
And a- a lot of the, um,  monies that  were generated, um,  for RD-SCHOOL-9 came from,  um,  the Georgia Lottery and  the, uh, HOPE Scholarship.
And so I- I- decided that since I was not ready to leave home,  and we had a  a- a local  institution that was  on the- on the rise,  I just decided to attend RD-SCHOOL-4.
And, uh, you know, I was so  eager to start college that    I graduated from high school  on Friday night with everybody else.
And by  Thursday of the next week,  I was in orientation to start college.
Well,  the fact  was that I- I wasn't,  um,  you know, going to do anything differently,  because since I was not leaving home, I didn't have to  you know, be worried about  trying to spend my last few days, or weeks  in town with- with my friends.
I had my part-time job and so I just,  decided that I didn't wanna waste a summer.
Um,  and so I just enrolled in college and  started a- a week after I got done with high school.
I worked at RD-WORK-3.
.
Well,  um,  originally when I enrolled at, um,    RD-SCHOOL-3,  I enrolled in the criminal justice program.
And  I got,  uh, over half way through the program  and  realized that a lot of the jobs that I would  desire when I graduated,  may, or may not have been open to me,  but because I was,  um,  over half way through with the program, I continued it.
And I decided that when I graduated,  in December two thousand three,  with my, uh,  bachelor's degree,  in criminal justice, that I would  enroll in  the,  uh,  alternative initial ta-  initial certification program.
And so I never stopped going to school.
I graduated  in December.
And started a new program in January.
I graduated from  that program with my master's degree in December, two thousand and eight.
You should have, You should've known.
I- I think I did.
Um, after I graduated, I-  I-  I was already, um,    four years into my career as an educator.
So I just continued, um,  being an educator here in Valdosta until the end of two thousand nine.
And  at the end of the school year in two thousand nine I  went to, um,  Madison County in Florida.
And I was, uh, there for four and a half years.
And I've also been in  uh, Lowndes County and also in Thomas County in the last  three and a half years.
I'm currently, um,    in between,  uh, jobs.
I've  most recently worked, um,  in Thomas County at the, um,  RD-WORK-2  RD-WORK-4, uh, which is a part of the, uh,  department of juvenile justice for the state of Georgia.
My dream job would to- would be to, uh,  finally make  the move to be a  college professor.
Um, I- I think that  the,  uh, potential  and opportunities are limitless once you,  leave the public school arena.
And so I would really like to  explore what it would be like to teach college classes.
.
My favorite movie,  oh, I have several favorites, but for the sake of,  uh, time,  I, um,  enjoy, the-  the movie, The- The Green Mile.
And the reason that I enjoyed The Green Mile is because  throughout the movie, um,  you actually see  what occurs.
And  the- the whole premise of the movie is that you have  a man who is innocent of  a double murder  to be convicted and sentenced  to death.
And he's a person that  is seemingly not very smart.
He's very naive.
He's very  innocent.
And he's a person that sees  the good  in everything,  in everybody.
He sees all things good in the world,  but  in the end that cost him,  his life.
And it seems like that-  that's one of the  dynamic things about life is that you can be  a person that sees the good,  in everything and everybody  and in the end,  the world turns on you.
So, you know.
I- I kind of  like that movie, uh, quite a bit, because he  is  so innocent.
And in the end, he just  says that, you know,  the world is a evil place and dark- full of evil people.
And  it's always  the- the good  who suffer the most.
I- I have seen some- some parallels between  what he suffers and some of the things that  I have gone through, because I-  I really feel that  there have been some times where  I may not have been treated fairly,  but  I was always raised to  always do the right thing  in spite of, uh, what you face,  because  that's just the right thing to do.
To- to do right by people, even  if you realize that you're not d- being done fairly because  my parents always told me that I would never be held responsible  for how somebody treated me.
But  it was totally up to me  to determine how I treated them.
Well I am,  an extreme  WWE fanatic.
Um, I  like to watch, uh, movies.
I read books, um,    I make very good use of my  ten dollar subscription to the WWE network because I realize that if nothing else goes right, I've always got  you know my-  my sports addiction  that I can always fall back on.
Um, my- my typical dream weekend would be    You know, just  I wouldn't even say being in it- in a- in an exotic place.
But just being, you know, maybe in a  place that  You know I can wake up and see, um,  the sunrise and  it  could be a beach, or it could just be a secluded place, or just a place that  is  serene.
That just allows me to get away from  the hustle and bustle of, um,    the light that  you know that  the average person lives everyday just to get away from some of that.
And just being able to,  uh, enjoy nature and you know, of course  have some good food.
And  be with the people who  are like minded.
Who just want to  have a good time.
And of course, ending up on Sunday at church.
I am.
Well, church has always been a staple  of, uh, my family life.
It's  uh, always been a constant thing.
An- an- and we've always  been taught that  you know, god should be the center.
And the head of your life.
And that,  um,  it's, you know, good to be able to know god.
And to trust him.
And I shared with someone,  uh, not long ago that,  uh, a lot of times  when we were growing up,  we went to church when other people were doing other things.
and sometimes it  would seem like we were forced to go to church,  but,  um,  I always found something in church that you know, was interesting to me, because I- I've always said that if  I'm going to have to go to church, I may as well find something interesting.
But,  you know, as a child I went to church and I didn't always understand everything, but,  uh, I've always had people around me who were willing to help me, to understand.
And so,  now I- I understand the my reliance on,  uh, god, and- and trying to live and do,  uh,  what-  what I feel god would  call for me to do is what,  uh, leads me life to- to this day.
Um, now  as far as me  being in ministry, um,  when I was younger I had some  ideas about some things that I was going to do and how I was going to do it and  I had,  um,    a near death experience  that  allowed me to see,  just how quickly  you know, life could be gone.
And  it allowed me to see that there may be some things  that  I had planned,  that god did not plan.
And so  I- I- I really honestly believe that sometimes god can send us a sign to let us  see that our plans are not his.
And that  I- I've- honestly believed that  there's some people that god just- uh, just does not allow  to  do their own thing.
And I- and I feel like that- I'm one of those people that just can't  have my way about everything.
I- I have to depend on god, because if I don't,  the near death experience could  become  something that's permanent.
Well it was, um,  March the twenty-sixth of, uh,  two thousand.
Senior year,  spring break  I finally made it through all of my hard classes.
I'm thinking about college a few months down the line  and, um,    I was riding, uh, in a car  uh, with my cousin  and  we crossed the- uh, a busy intersection,  but of course we had  looked  to be sure that there was no onc- oncoming traffic.
And we crossed the intersection    and I happened to look  out of the passenger side window where I was sitting,  and I saw another car coming.
And we were  committed  to crossing the intersection.
So, there was no way  that we could avoid  being struck.
And  my door was hit  and I imagine that that other person,  was going at least  sixty or sixty-five miles per hour.
And  both of us  in the car and the other driver walked away  without  any injuries,  but the car was totaled.
And  I never actually saw the car again.
But  everybody that saw the car,  just knew that whoever was in it  was dead.
But that was my sign from god that  he spared me for a purpose.
And  it was up to me to decide to fulfill the purpose.
And so, from that day to this one, although I have not been  perfect.
I've always  strived to fulfill the purpose for which I feel like I'm here.
Um, I- I think that we've,  uh,  managed to f-  um,  become close.
Um, I  feel like that- we  may-  may not  always agree, on  some things.
And- And we're not-  we don't see each other  often, but  I've  come to understand that  we can always just  seemingly pick up where we left off.
When you got sick last year, um,   you told me.
Um,  because,  oh, you know.
Even though we don't see each other often, we  you know, periodically  check on each other, but I- and I think that I reached out to you to check on you.
And you told me that you had  you know, had some illness  and that's- and that's pretty much how I found out.
Just  you know, checking on you and seeing how things were going.
I did.