Uh, growing up in Atlanta  and uh,  me as a kid, we did a lot of things that kids normally do.
Socialize, hang out,  play ball,  of course, my mom had enrolled me into a lot of um,  sports  but mainly just  baseball, then I played football for one time.
Didn't like the sport.
I said, uh, let me get out of this.
This ain't for me.
I don't like getting hit.
And, of course, she had me into little camps and stuff.
Basketball camp, which I had fun.
You know, I think that's something like, most kids should do, go to camps after  school is out for the summer time.
Then, also did soccer.
Soccer.
It's a really competitive sport.
But other than that, you know, my friends, you know, we  still  stay in contact, hang out from time to time, whenever I do visit, or  if someone do come down this way.
Um.
Just now, you know,  coming down here in Valdosta,  you know, I don't see too many kids  hanging out and stuff, or they all just stay cooped up in the house.
Probably playing video games, or  God knows what.
But,  that's the only thing I could say.
I had a  great childhood life.
Uh.
We stayed in apartment.
At least I- Well we stayed in apartment complex, which was  like, family  oriented.
So, you know, it's a lot of families and stuff.
And,   I could say we had like  like a little mixed culture.
And then, I guess I could say, at that age,  probably about  ten years old, you know, I  had experienced some racism.
You know.
Cause some of the kids, some of the white kids, were a little bit  prejudiced or racist towards the black kids.
And, there been time or two, we had got into a lot of fights.
And,  course, the parents have to try to break it up, or any other adults would have to try to break it up.
You know.
But,  at that time, I really didn't  know racism as I do now.
You know cause I do one, really.
stunting that you know, it's like I try to treat everybody equal.
No matter what color you is.
Not really.
Cause I just wanted to get out.
I really didn't like school.
Like, I guess  I guess each grade level I get  higher and higher, I guess certain classes just get tough and tougher for me.
You know, like English was never my strong point.
You know.
Had a  strict English teacher, and most of my English teachers were black.
And,  They were just riding us really, really hard.
Very, very hard, but I guess they were looking at the fact that, you know,  as  Black people, and African American, you know, we need to take education a little bit more serious.
And  I guess I was all about, um,  I'm tryna get to the girls.
I don't wanna study  education.
Then my high school year,   uh.
I think I took  education a little more serious now.
So, I'll just try and try to be  better.
Try to do better.
And then,  thing about college, is that I wanna go to, you know, it's one particular college I wanna go to  but didn't get enrolled due to  my SAT scores, but at the time, I didn't know like SAT scores,  you can retake and retake them until it gets  better cause they like say, you know, the first go around, you may not score high as you think.
But the more you take it, your scores get a little bit higher.
And then,  Came to Valdosta  back in oh-five to go to school down here.
And,  m-  I had a wonderful experience at Val Tech.
Then after Val Tech, I went to VSU.
At VSU, I just like, yeah.
Yeah, and then my  college professors.
You know, I had one  particular professor  for my um, computer class, like  we couldn't understand a word  that's coming out of his mouth cause he's foreign.
So, I always go to sleep in his class.
So, I know that was a class I could  pretty much chill and go to sleep in, but  really don't say much.
But,  just hearing him talk and stuff, I'm just like looking at him like, what did you just say?
But,  other than that, I had fun.
And then,  If I was ever to go back and do it all over again,  I think I'd probably choose a online school.
Cause it's way more convenient for me.
You know, I don't have to worry about trying to find a parking spot, trying to get up  extra early.
I could do everything in the comforts of my bed.
Like, oh okay.
Uh.
My first grade teacher.
I liked her.
She really  pushed me.
You know, I did get held back one grade,  but, she was my second year, first grade teacher I had, and  out of all of the kids, she  was more focused on me.
So,  to this day, we still talk.
Uh.
Math and science.
Well,  I'm good at math, and I love science.
And,  with technology and everything, I'm always trying to stay on top of everything.
Well, originally,  my aunt, who I call my mom, stays  here it Atlanta.
She was staying in Atlanta, but  she had to come get me because her sister  was on some other stuff.
So, my grandmama on my daddy's side  said that  somebody need to come get me.
because they  feel like I wasn't in a good space.
Then, I had met my godmothers up there.
They had took me in for a second til my Auntie came and got me.
So, we went back to Atlanta.
But,  she really wanted to get her sister to come, so she could get her some help, but she was just being stubborn and hardheaded.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, my mama came first.
she had, went to go spend some time with her friends cause  they had an idea, oh you can make it in Valdosta.
Uh,  cost of living is cheap, but not telling her that  the jobs don't pay that much, and it's hard to find jobs, like  who you know will get you in.
But,  the original idea after I graduated from high school was to go to California.
But,  that didn't go through so,  we wound up in Valdosta.
I said out of all places, I would've stuck with California.
Cause that's where I orig wanted to go.
I coulda got discovered.
Uh, wanna be a actor.
You know,  comedy,  acting, you know.
That would be the place to be,  place to go.
Anytime.
Any kind of comedy.
You know, like,  probably be like the next  Eddie Murphy.
O- No.
No.
I'll tell you a joke.
Off  Off the k- record.
Yeah .
I wanted to get the hell out.
I wanted to go back home.
I a- ask my mama, I said  mama  so, where-  where we gonna stay at?
She looking at me, just riding, just  cheesin.
I said, okay, is you gonna tell where we're gonna stay at?
And I said I know good, when you ain't bring me all the way out from Jonesboro to go sleep in no car for right now until we get our place.
I said uh uh.
So,  slept in a car for about a week.
But, it's kind of funny cause it's like, you could see a lot of things  at night  and other homeless people  where we all normally have our little hang out spots and stuff.
And I just say, you know what?
I could deal with one homeless person parking next to it, but a  third one showing up?
We got to go.
Gots to go.
So, we finally got into a little  a little house, which I call a shotgun house cause you could see  the front door,  and the back door.
Stayed there for about one year, and then moved to Lakeland.
And I said, we just goin- we just going even more backwards.
From  bad to worse.
But then, staying at Lakeland, you know, I actually had fun.
You know, cause the little community actually do a lot of things, you know.
Especially for the kids around the summer time.
So, I had fun.
And then, I was also known for  being the DVD man out there.
Selling DVDs and CDs, so  got my little recognition or fame out there pretty much.
And,  I told my mom, we gotta go to Valdosta.
Cause  this driving back and forth from school and work, it just went out me.
So, we went back to Valdosta  found us another apartment.
And,  like I just said, we was gonna give that about six months, so that's when lease was up.
I'm gone.
Found a better apartment, been there since.
And now, working on trying to find a house.
Sometime next year.
Mm-hm.
Well, being homeless.
You know, a lot of folks think, oh they homeless because they can't  do nothing for themselves, but it's not always the case with most homeless people.
You know, some homeless people just  homeless until they get something better coming for 'em.
You know, tryna find a  place, something.
Get established  and everything, and-  And that's the one reason why I say, you know, one day, I would like to help out homeless people.
You know.
Help out those, you know, that's less fortunate, can't help themselves  cause, you know, I had like a million ideas what I wanna do that's like non-profit.
Pretty much.
And  that's when you know  living how to be homeless, and then not being homeless, you know, I  pretty much know what they would go through.
You know, especially sleeping out  when it's  cold, and y-  can't get warm or trying to stay warm, and then  tryna find  something to eat  at a reasonable price pretty much.
But  in our case, scenario, is like, okay.
My mama was working and I was going to school.
And I had to  you know, just keep a smile on my face, you know, not everybody know, oh I'm homeless, they-  you know, they just,  wasn't me.
Cause at that time, at that age frame, you know, I'm- I ain't telling nobody this.
You know, cause not knowing  what somebody may think, or be like oh,  he homeless.
I don't wanna talk to him.
You know.
Some do, and some don't and then some folks think, oh  they homeless and they have a little sign out, and, you know, they think, oh they scamming folks.
Even though it has been a  couple of talks about that  in the news that some people fake to be homeless  got a lot of money, and then got arrested for it.
But me, you know, I just took it as a chance.
Like, you know, if there's a homeless person, I wanna try to help 'em  best way I can.
You know, I have  gave money, have  bought food for 'em.
You know, cause  I know the struggle.
I knows it's a very struggle out here.
Well, we had to come up with the money first.
And that was the only issue.
Just the money.
Then once we got the money up, then that was it.
So, she was just like, one more pay check in and then,  we got the place afterwords.
And then establish furniture far as like moving our stuff from Atlanta  down here  to  have something to lay our heads on for a minute cause I know just staying there was just gonna temporary too until we found something better.
Cause,  my thing is, you know,  I like to live in a nice  comfortable neighborhood.
That's how it always been  for me.
So,  even when I was telling one of my friends, like  Mkay, y'all,  you stay in the projects,  and she was telling about her  upbringing.
Then I said, okay, don't you wanna like,  do something better?
Far as, you know, you got a lot of kids, don't you want to show your kids there's something better out there instead of just  being here.
Like,  I don't like see nobody being just stuck in one spot.
And,  standing in one spot like, I know you can  do better, be better.
Even though I call my job, like folks say, oh, I just rather stay in this position, I'm like why?
You know, you, you ain't gonna get  any higher in your pay raise  being in this position.
You always talking about, oh, I wanna do this, I wanna do that.
Okay.
Go out there and do it.
Don't be stuck as no cashiers, no cook.
You know?
Do something better.
I even spoked about education.
Some folks say, oh, I don't wanna do education, it just too much hard work.
But it's not hard work.
But it just what you what you make seem like it's hard work, but it's not hard work.
You know, it's gonna be like, some struggles here and there.
Cause I did it.
Had to work forty, fifty hours a week and still  go to school.
Still had to come to work.
Still had to find a ride to work.
I passed.
I made it.
And the only difference is,  you know,  versus those who stays here, they got family members around here.
that can help 'em.
Me?
It's just me and my mom.
I'm the only one doing it all by myself.
Just me and my mom.
That's who I got right now.
Cause if it wasn't for her, to encourage me and  pray  and everything, I don't where I would be at.
She is a sweet old lady.
A sweet old little lady.
Sometime, she can  be a little bit nagging sometimes, or  just always ask a lot of questions.
And I guess that's what I get that from.
Asking a lot of questions, but  she still treats me like I'm a little child and I'm grown.
I'm like.
Just like today, she gonna ask me, where you going?
Uh, how long you gonna be gone?
I'm like mama, really?
I'm grown.
I'll be back when I wanna be back.
But,  that just her, cause I'm the only baby she has, um.
But, I can understand, sometimes I say, maybe I shoulda had a little brother or sister.
But.
I don't know.
Oh yeah.
Probably have about four, five kids.
You know, I'd just like to have a  big family.
Yeah.
Uh.
Guess  things just change.
Cause with the military, it just a lot of  lot of  tape you gotta go through.
Cause it was hell trying to get my medical records.
Cause that's the only thing that was the hold up  was my medical records.
And  knowing now,  as I'm getting older,  you know, I'm probably won't even be qualified anyway  due the fact that, you know, if you got asthma,  you automatic disqualified.
Yup.
Cause when I went  for the army at first, they might say, he kept asking the same question, you got asthma?
I'm like.
and you know, some people say just lie.
Just lie.
But,  even if I lie and then try to go out there, and then if I do have that asthma attack,  they'll know, like, oh.
And I ain't tryna face no consequences after that.
Uh.
And far as the job goes, you know.
I was looking for work.
Cause you know, I was going, I was still in college looking for work.
So, I like said, well lemme try this place cause  when I was in Atlanta, uh, I had  wanted to try to work at Taco Bell up there.
But,  the GM at the time, he  wasn't just  interested or looking for anybody right now.
So, this one,   I called  put an application  and  I just kept calling.
kept call him, kept calling and nagging until he finally just say, okay.
Come on  talk to my district manager  and,  talked to the district manager and then she just hired me on the spot.
Luckily, the GM that was there, you know, he was a Christian guy, so he understood,  understand my religion about you know,  I can't work on this day, but I can work on all the other days, so he understood that.
And,  the funny thing about it, one of his other managers,  uh,  pretty much told him, oh I don't think you don't need to hire him.
That man came in here  with some church clothes and some glasses, like he really want  the job.
I said, well you gotta dress punctual.
No matter what job it is, you know, I always believe you know, suit and tie.
Even if just to be a garbage man or something.
You know.
But.
So, I been  working there, started there two thousand nine.
left and got transferred to Lake Park.
And s-  the funny thing about the manager that didn't want to hire me,  she was the store manager in Lake Park.
So, she wanted me  cause she know I do  great job with my results and stuff, so  she figured, well since he don't wanna promote me for whatever reason that may be, maybe she'll promote me manager.
So, when I got to her store,  maybe  two months down the road,  she went ahead and promoted me and stuff.
And, I've been under her  reign for a minute.
Then, I left  and got another job  and  after that job had went up,  after they did they little merger,  everybody had to go.
So, I came back to her  which, now she's a area coach.
So,  I'm working out there in Moultrie.
Pretty much.
First, it was Adel  And I just didn't like the atmosphere in Adel.
Cause, it was just  some of the crew members kind of rubbed me the wrong way.
You know, and then the store manager I had at the time, he would just  showing favoritism.
You know, it's like  he had me closing  every night.
And then, when it comes to the other managers, oh he make them come in like  four or five o'clock.
Though you know, we close at twelve.
But, I'm the only one that had to come in at two  to twelve.
Two to twelve every day.
And then I'm always getting short handed on my shift.
And  got one particular person who always show up four hours late  every day.
Doesn't matter which manager it was.
So, I got fed up with him.
So I said you know what, I'm gonna teach him a lesson.
So, I called in one day and said I was sick.
And I wasn't sick.
Went to the little hospital, got my little doctor's note.
And um,  them three days,  he was having the trouble  with his own employees.
Claim he had to fire somebody and then rehire them back.
Trying to  beg me to come in  talking about, well I'll let you open, I'm like no.
So, I was sitting out at the bar, playing cards, like I normally do.
Stayed like I was still sick.
And then,    he got gone  after  a little money issue.
Cause I  told my big boss, I said, well where do the safe normally be at at this particular store?
So, she was just wondering why the safe so short.
I'm like I don't know.
When I first got here, it was about  this much, now it's  that much.
So, he got fired.
So, me and him, he  still don't like me to this day, which I don't care.
But,  if  we ever see each other in the streets  I just know, he just better not  say anything towards me.
Cause this day, I still wanna kick his ass though.
I hate to say it but, I still wanna kick his little tail and make a little Facebook post, and say, okay, what's all this stuff you were talking now?
You know.
And,  Moultrie  on the other hand,  they needed help  real bad.
Like managers and stuff.
So,  you know, it's like I made they little statement out there in Moultrie.
It's like  nobody don't wanna this store.
This store is rough.
This store is very rough.
Like,  crew members not even that bad.
It just the customers are rough  out there.
And,  it's hard to keep help.
And it's sad that you got  five managers that's from the outside driving  to that store.
The people that stays in that city don't even wanna work there.
It's like, it's hard to keep help.
And then they gonna say,  well maybe we need to build another RD-WORK-3.
I'm like I don't know what for.
Why build another RD-WORK-3?
It's hard for them to keep help too.
Hard to keep help.
I just say just torch the place and just-  just don't ever  build it ever again.
Just say it's dead.
I always come in there every day, I like to say, I wish this place burn down.
It almost burnt down.
Until one manager decide that she wanted to save the day, and I looked at her like she was crazy, like.
So you really tryna make us come to work?
Like, if you'd a let this place burn, you wouldn't even have to worry about driving here everyday.
Like, she was like, oh I was stuck.
Uh, we coulda got you out.
You coulda called me.
I be doing seventy five miles an hour trying to get you out of there.
Just let the place burn.
And I woulda have that Usher song playing in the background.
Let it  burn.
About  good forty five minutes to an hour.
Mm-hm.
Cause really, if you go the Saint Augustine way,  it just a straight shot, but I don't know if they still  working on the road, but I know it's forty five all the way.
So  then, you know, I had got a ticket coming back that way, and I said, I  never going this route again.
So  The best way for me is, I just take I-75  get off exit thirty nine off of Adel and  take the back way.
Cause least I know it's fifty mile, fifty, fifty-five miles that way.
But,  every day.
And then,  I had my mama to pick me up one day and she was like  uh uh.
I can't do this one.
I can't pick you up  every time coming this way.
It's a long drive.
But,  I do what I gotta do.
It's alright.
It's straight  until I find something else.
It's just temporary.
You know, cause  I'm looking.
Looking.
And then,  I even think about  asking one of my pastors at my church like,  do y'all have like any  open positions?
Like  for the sound people or technology people  in one of the universities?
You know, I'll go try out there.
But, it just a temporary  thing.
Don't get me wrong, you know.
RD-WORK-3's okay place to work.
You learn a lot of things, but  really, it be a great job once you get  to that um,  home office position.
Making the real money then.
Being a area coach,  they make  probably about seventy, eighty thousand dollars a year.
Which, that's okay.
But, I think I see myself now more as  see myself more as a teacher than more as a manager though.
Like, I like to teach train people.
So, I'm thinking about asking my boss, like, there's an open position for a field coach,  Cause I'll do that.
They pretty much just follow up  on the training of all managers.
And then, they come to store to store.
Probably help out  train  new employees and stuff.
The  proper role and procedures.
Which,  we had one guy come to our store every Tuesday  just to follow up, cause we got a new store manager.
Which,  I give about four months.
Cause she still  learning still, asking us, oh what come on this?
What come on that?
But,  you know, I look at it that  You know, I could see her manager ways, and she claims she got manager experience for twenty something years at McDonald's.
But McDonalds and RD-WORK-3 is  two different things.
You will actually have to come out on that floor and work.
Work.
Work.
Work.
And I wanna ask my boss so bad like, why did you hire her?
I understand she's your old boss and your friend, but sometimes you can't mix  friends  and pleasure  at the same time because  looking at her,  and judging from what another store said about her,  you know,  we gonna have our hands full.
Cause she sorry.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Just sorry.
Just like yesterday.
You know, I'm just saying thing like, okay.
Is she coming in?
This her store.
Everybody leaving, due to overtime.
I told her like this, I gotta go too.
Due to overtime.
Since y'all don't wanna give nobody no overtime.
Y'all writing folks up  left and right.
So, I had one of the managers laugh, and they was like, so what you gonna- What you gonna do when she get here RD-NAME-2?
I'm gonna be gone too.
Due to overtime.
I'm gonna  get off the clock    and go home.
I'll have all this other stuff done about-  about time she gets here.
But, I'm not staying no extra two hours.
No.
Not for free.
No.
I'-  I don't- I'm gone.
And then  I looked at her.
She stayed hour off the clock for free  to help us out cause we were just in bad shape.
And all I say, shit, well you ain't even have to stay.
I'll just have to lock them doors and- and- and be done with it and just take orders in drive through.
I still got my gas can.
I could've  went outside  throw some gasoline  torch the place like it's sposta been.
You know.
Like,  like I said, this store got like the seven plagues that just came  through here.
First the hurricanes.
Then then the bugs,  Then the power outages.
But, it's still standing.
Like, I don't know.
This RD-WORK-3  paying it's tithe somewhere to church that we don't know of.
But still standing.
I think they would then illuminati thing since they always post they little commercial about the Bellumati.
But.
It's still kicking.
Like, I see a thing, like okay.
All the restaurants across the street lost power and stayed out of power for two days.
But this one still had power and I'm trying to figure out where this back up generator at.
I need to just hit that a couple of times, but   I just say, you know, I told the folks, I said man, y'all just call me when the store is actually on fire.
So that way,  I could have some beers  we can just kick back and relax.
But they gonna say, oh if the store catch on fire RD-NAME-2,  they gonna suspect you.
They'll know.
I will have an alibi.
I'll know where I will be at.
I can't help the store caught on fire.
I don't c- I can't help if somebody got mad and wanted to torch the place cause  we messed up on they food all the time or something.
You know, they got their own little Facebook talking about Taco Bell.
If it ain't Taco Bell, it's another restaurant.
And th- c- And the customers, they so petty.
Like, even if we post a sign, say oh,  credit debit only.
They take pictures and post it.
I'm like, y'all is shout out.
Well, in this situation, we had a bad  lightning storm, we take  credit or debit.
Cause our credit Um.
No, we take  cash only cause our credit debit machine is down.
But,  in the case of we don't have cash, then yeah, we say credit or debit only.
And we figure, you know, half of everybody ain't got credit.
So, I just said, credit only.
And they get mad talking about  no cash?
Y'all can't do exact change?
I'm like, oh we can do exact change, so like, if you pay with the fi-  pay with a hundred  you know, we're gonna have to keep the rest cause we ain't got nothing to give you back with it.
Oh, never mind.
But,  it just crazy.
Um.
Had a frequent customer keep saying we messed up on they food.
All the time.
Like, she thought she was gonna get away with it the second go around, the second day.
And I said, ma'am,  I was here yesterday, you did not order nothing from us.
You came and got your remade food.
Talking about the same thing that you had said that we messed up and you talking about the same thing all over again.
And she well- uh, uh, no.
Just go.
Just go.
So, she got crystals that way.
But she ain't came back to our store no more after that foolishness.
Cause she just flip flop and scamming folks out of food and then she got her whole boyfriend  just going along with it.
And then one of my crew members gonna say, oh ya RD-NAME-2 she- she stay out there where I stay at.
I said oh yeah, so she's not no nurse?
Like nah.
Sure, she said she stay in Norman Parks.
And I said, okay.
But he gonna say, oh but she do got a big old booty.
Alright.
For real?
I say okay.
I might need to come chill out there with y'all just to see what she look like for real for real.
But,  It's crazy.
Uh.
It's uh.
Really.
Tell you the truth.
I ran out of gas one time.
That was it.
But I ain't  been running out  for years.
It jus- This year.
This year for the first time.
All the other years, I've been good.
But,  one time I run out of gas, it was like  on Asher Street.
And I told my mom.
I said momma,  we just need to go ahead pull into one of these little gas stations  put two dollars worth, cause I'm not paying that high ass gas,  and just make it on to where we need to go at  and go to the other gas station.
So, apparently,  we thought we had a gas can in the car.
We didn't.
We left it in the other car.
So,  to this day, that why  still keep the gas can.
But if it ain't for gas, it might just be for my stove.
Oh, it's all the time.
Even the one time I ran out of gas  in your drive through.
I was just like  no.
Called your brother.
Didn't wanna pick up or nothin.
And I was like, said, man where is nearest gas station here?
And I said, ooh, the nearest one was on eighty-four.
And I know I did not wanna call you cause you were gonna give me that speech.
Called, I said, oh let me just go ahead and call.
And then when you came out that door, you came in there looking like  she gonna kill me.
That kill me look.
And just l- how you run out of  gas  in my drive way?
I- uh- I- I-  Look at your cousin  dude just sit there just be quiet while you gave me that little speech.
I said, oh  boy.
To this day, I never try to run out of gas in your  in your vicinity.
And you know y'all made the little gas jokes.
And you mama said you need some change?
I gotcha.
Don't want you to run out of gas.
And then the brother too.
I said, man you ain't even wanna pick up the phone man.
Coulda picked up the phone.
Took me to the gas station real  quick.
She wouldn't even have to know.
So I was even being crazy  probably just  pull out the car and just  push the car to the gas station  just like hope somebody has something like.
Yeah man.
I- I-  I need a ride to the gas station.
I'm like  why he ain't call nobody?
I couldn't call this particular per- she woulda  she woulda got.
Oh, okay.
We met at the bar.
You know.
We met-  we really ain't officially meet the first go around, but I seen you the first go around.
But, I had thought at first you  you- that was- the dude that you came with, I thought that was your husband at first.
And,  I was looking, I said oh she cute.
And then I saw you had a-  thought that was your husband at the time.
I said, oh.
She off limits.
But I said that never really ain't never stopped me before.
So, the second go around,  I wasn't even sposta be at the bar.
I was sposta still be at work closing.
But, we had a manager  that was new that was in training.
And he pretty much just say, cause we-  we talk about playing cards, and I told him I play poker and he was like, oh okay.
And you say, well I'll make a deal with you RD-NAME-2.
You get all the dishes done, I'll let you go.
Okay.
Boy, they said that about the fastest thing I even did dishes.
And made it just in time for the ten o'clock game.
And that's when I saw you.
And that's when I  carried a conversation  and I was saying something about, oh.
Where you're um,  where your husband at?
Or something.
Be like, my husband?
That wasn't my husband.
That was my brother.
More like, oh.
So, you know, I had to put my little charm on then.
I said okay.
So you know, I like said, you know, we need to go  probably hang out, go to the movies.
Cause it was one particular movie  that I wanted to go see.
called Red Tales.
Still to this day, I still ain't seen that movie yet.
Still ain't seen that movie yet.
So,  So, we met up.
you know, I had a little  spot that we met up at, had fun.
Playing cards.
And,  we ain't got a chance to play Monopoly.
Cause I think we brought that Monopoly game.
We were gonna play that cause I said I'm good at Monopoly.
But,  Card- Eh.
I don't know.
I think I just got rusty,  somehow you beat me.
I don't.
I don't know.
But,  the card game, I like the cards.
Especially when I hit them little quads on you.
That was my best moment.
To  this day, I remember.
Oh, fun times.
Fun times.
Mm-hm.
Jacksonville, Florida.
Oh yeah.
The massage place.
The little hotel.
Then we had a little  entertainment.
A little video.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
My very first time.
Uh.
So many.
I guess the club.
The good old club  that um,  we went to.
Had fun at the club.
First I was scared and shy, and I'm just like, man, no.
But a little bit more drinks.
Oh.
I'm on top of the world.
On top of the world.
Oh.
Halloween night.
We all dre- they all dressed up in  costume.
Went up to Atlanta for that one day.
Came back.
Yes.
Uh.
Mm-hm.
Yeah about four.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Uh.
When I'm at work.
Sometimes I feel that way when-  When I don't have somebody to come in like they supposed to.
Like a manager for instance.
I'm stuck  after I open  and I gotta turn around and close.
Cussing everybody out.
Including the manager that didn't show up.
Call him every single name  in the book.
And then  And I tell my employees,  well,    y'all hungry?
help y'all selves.
T-  And uh.
And then,  had one manager who stole  fifteen hundred dollars, but still kept they job.
I said, I wanna learn that trick one day.
Steal two thousand dollars and still keep my job.
Cause I guarantee, if that was me,  they'll have me locked up, underneath the jail, throw away the key.
She was white.
Yeah.
But,  They looked at it, oh she young.
I say, I don't give a darn  if she young.
She know that was a damn scam.
I don't care what y'all believe.
I believe she- she pocket half of that money.
Gave them folks their money, and then she gonna say she had to cut up  the card and throw away the receipt.
For the first time, I woulda looked at it, and when did she get some scissors at while she was at Walmart?
She got a phone call  to somebody from Taco Bell from corporate.
Saying that oh, your store's under investigation with  three people and  uh, we need you to take the money out the safe and wired it here and  at this location and-  And I'm just like first off, corporate won't even call you that late at night.
Anyway,  it's midnight.
They wouldn't call you.
They be closed around five o'clock in the afternoon.
So, my boss gonna ask everybody else, like, oh where was I at?
I was riding home.
That's where I was at.
Cause I guess, apparently, when she got that phone call, I  probably  just left.
Probably about  ten minutes ago.
So she thought I probably mighta  coulda been there to- to a stop that.
I'm like, nah.
I don't think I wouldn't have even stop that.
I'd probably a wait til she took all the money out  the safe and  probably woulda whacked her on side of the head, and take the money and dip.
She wouldn't even know what was coming.
Cause she was dinky anyway.
And uh, she was just-  just the fall person  that we could just put everything on her.
But,  you know, she did a lot of crazy things.
You know, but I think  when she made that decision and uh,  she was scared.
And then,  when my my boss was interviewing her, she asked her this one question, like  where are your parents at?
You know.
Cause I know she probably say if her parents wasn't here, she probably wanna choke the shit out of her.
Cause the look she had, like ah, he gave me all my damn money.
If they don't know who call  and then you say, oh they called the store, but then  the phone went dead, but then they called your cell phone, but how they got your cell phone number?
Then they call private?
It's crazy.
And then she ain't wanna by the subpoena her phone records, I say, oh I know she guilty.
She guilty.
Mm-hm.
Well, they called her.
And  n- they pretty much gave her simple instructions on what to do.
Cause they say she don't do it  they were gonna close Taco Bell down for two weeks, or whatever case may be.
So, we looked at her, so you really want us to work?
Hell, I wouldn't even gave 'em the damn money, talking about closing store now.
I coulda work at another store in Valdosta  and been done with it.
You know, but you really tryna make us work, so we now where your mind at right now.
So, after that incident,  she never did it no more, so we wound up had to babysit her,  especially me.
Like,  some nights I have to close with her, or-  Or I have to work with her all up to a certain time  just to make sure.
And I told her this, before I go,  I said, whatever you do, don't answer that damn phone.
I don't give a damn who it is.
Don't pick up the damn phone.
Don't   Nah.
Aye, y'all watch this damn phone for her, don't even pick up.
You know.
So, ever since that day, I  I just don't even put money in the system no more.
Like, I literally have to check to validate, just to make sure everybody drop what they supposed to drop.
Cause she taught everybody a lesson  and then the safe situation.
Count the damn safe.
Cause like, this girl came at me talking about, RD_NAME-2,  did you know about the safe?
N- n- what, what about?
What's wrong with the safe?
It's short.
So, you know, I'm sitting here, making food, I'm like okay, a- how much short you talking about?
A hundred dollars short?
Two hundred dollars short?
Shook my face.
Real short.
I say, well shit.
This ain't my damn store.
I'm just visiting.
So, I ain't have nothing to do with it.
I just came here to make food.
So the girl tried to call me in earlier trying to get me to help her out cause she was way behind.
But, I came in at my normal time cause I ain't stunting that.
So, all I said, that safe situation, that between the girl who call- who closed last night and the opening manager.
I was just there to make food, and that's my story and I'm sticking with it.
You know.
So, the other girl, she got the hell on.
She had finally got her job  being a nurse.
So.
And then the other girl that stole the money, she left too.
She quit.
After  her brother died, so she was still grieving over that.
So she thinking about she wants to come back.
My big boss thinking about  wanting her to get her to come back.
I say, yeah.
Right on.
Be less stress and less problems.
But.
Yeah.
Well, I was coming back from my high school reunion.
And,  I was like, probably about thirty, forty minutes away from Valdosta.
And, I had got sandwiched in- Yeah.
And I got sandwiched in by two semi trucks.
And  they swore up and down that they claim I hit them, pushed them off the road.
Like, how can I hit y'all?
I'm a itty bitty car.
I can't even move no damn semi truck.
So, one of the witness said that  one of the trucks came in my lane, but he don't know which one.
He can't remember.
It'd been that  long ago.
So, of course, they  wind up paying the settlement out and everything, but after that,  you know, I still have my fear from time to time.
So, I don't try to get by any  trucks  period.
Or, its just like I just developed a case of  claustrophobic  like,  two cars riding side by side with me, and I don't like that.
I mean, just- just in general when I'm driving.
Uh, two thousand fifteen.
Mm.
Um.
I wanna say,  probably the late part of two thousand sixteen.
Late part.
But,  you know, I still drive.
You know, I don't like driving long distance for a while, or  certain times of the days, like, all these damn semi trucks, I don't like being around them all the time.
Not on the back roads, but it just like when you leaving,  coming,  on the express way at a certain time at night, probably about  nine or ten o'clock.
Seems like there's more of 'em coming out at night than  versus during the day time.
But.
Uh.
I guess technology wise.
Technology, job wise, you know.
It's like  now all of a sudden, Valdosta decide they wanna add a little  camera on they street light.
On they-  you know, on they street lights.
So I guess they tryna be like  Florida I guess.
So, if you speed, they send you a ticket in the mail or something.
But,  job wise, you know, it still need a lot more jobs.
We don't need no more damn restaurants.
We do not need no more damn restaurants.
You know, but  Plus in Atlanta, it's a lot to do.
Way more things to do.
Versus Valdosta, just like, ugh.
Okay.
I have, I even say, you know, just  blow this little place up  and just put Florida close to Atlanta.
Be done with it.
After I take all the cute girls out of Valdosta.
Or really the two two nine area up here, cause I really never knew it was the two two nine.
I just knew the main area codes, but two two nine kind of like  snuck up on me on that one.
Cause I'm like  who is y'all?
Where did y'all come from?
Seem like I just brain wash a lot of folks, like, oh, Valdosta never existed.
That was just a myth.
It might.
I don't know.
Mm.
I guess maybe the customers.
Like,  when they give you your money, they just  slap it on the ground.
On the  counter.
Don't wanna touch your hand or nothing.
Me?
I just be funny.
I take the money.
Then when I give 'em the money, I just give them a-  a sh- a handshake or something, like, hey have a great day, come back again.
Just to see what they gonna do.
But, other than that, that's it.
You know, and then  maybe when I get a work at home job,  I may experience when one person call me the N word, but  you know.
Mm-hm.
So, I told my boss that.
And he had asked me, what's his  account number and everything and he sent it up to  higher commands, whatnot.
And they went ahead and  disconnected they service cause they don't tolerate that.
Uh.
I believe I can say yeah.
I mean the  opportunity's out there.
Just gotta grab it.
You know.
Cause it's really no excuse, I mean.
Other then  everybody's upbringings may be a little bit different, but everybody had the same chance that you have.
some may have a  better chance because  they parents  may be little bit  well off a little bit, or may  had the extra means, but  I wouldn't say I wouldn't have that deterred you from not getting to what you need to get to just because of that.
You know, cause like just listening to everybody's stories and stuff, you know.
Even one of my friends, you know, he's doing good despite of, an-  in high school, his parents were going through a divorce or something, or  being separated, but  he's doing well.
You know, got his own family and everything else.
Me, I'm just the last one still waiting.
I don't know, waiting on the right person.
I guess.
I mean, I probably want to have a child with a particular person, but she was like uh uh.
She said no.
N- It's not happening.
Even if I tried, it's not happening.
I said, even if I was to  be like Chucky  put the little base inside of you, I'm like she getting pregnant, I don't care.
And then get twins, it'd be alright.
Mm-hm.
Um.
It's the young folks.
I'll just tell them, don't give up.
You know.
Don't give up cause  it may seem  tough  now,  you know, it may be like, you may experience like a little struggle,  or you may feel like, oh this person's being hard on you, or  or you feel like you can't make it.
Just don't give up.
You know, just keep trying, keep going.
You know, because  some folks wanna see you  fail and then there's some folks wanna see you succeed.
You know, cause simple fact that  me  me coming back to RD-WORK-3  you know, lot of folks felt intimidated.
Cause the simple fact that  they figured that I would take they job.
Or,  be in a better position than them.
And they've been here a lot longer than me.
You know, cause even like  at Moultrie  we had  three assistant managers.
and no store manager.
And they all  got gone  in a mysterious way, I would say.
So now, since they all gone, I'm next in line to be the assistant.
And, you know.
And you know, I just  never gave up cause I knew eventually, they gonna go.
One of them's on his last leg.
The other one, it was just  unforeseen  mistake.
But,  you know, it's  you know, I say folks fire they own selves pretty much.
You know, and then  One person, you know, they just  don't like change, or they feel like oh  okay, I think I met my match.
So,  just don't ever give up.