I was born in Valdosta, Georgia.
Claim,   like-   not really.
We-  okay, when I grew up we stayed on RD-ADDRESS-2 Drive.
It is literally like, right down the street from-  I don't know if you know where Ora Lee West is.
Yeah, East Side.
Yeah, I guess I don't really be knowing.
I don't claim no sides.
Um, and then we moved to Lake Park- no, no, no,  missing something.
We moved to Clyattville  and that's when I started going to RD-SCHOOL-1, and then we moved to Lake Park.
And we moved back to  RD-ADDRESS-2  to my childhood home.
Mm-hm.
Yep, we built a house out there and we had to let it go.
Um.
For twenty  two years.
Twenty-three years, yep.
My whole life.
No,  just Valdosta.
Seventh grade.
Okay, I went-  I started in pre-K at, um,  RD-SCHOOL-2.
And  I went- I wanna say around kindergarten,  first grade,  maybe all the way up to second grade, I was in Valdosta RD-SCHOOL-3.
I think I went to,  um, RD-SCHOOL-2, at the time it was RD-SCHOOL-4,  but now it's RD-SCHOOL-4.
But I went there and then  for my third  and  fourth grade-  no, you know what, f-  third, fourth,  and fifth?
No, it was starting in fourth I went to- back to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And then,  um.
Did I say third and fourth, or fourth and fifth?
Okay, yeah just third through fifth cause I don't remember what  happened  between that time.
But, um, and then I went to RD-SCHOOL-6, sixth grade.
And then  started RD-SCHOOL-4 in seventh grade, after I moved to Clyattville,  moved to the county area.
Though- you know the funny thing though, I- I was crying, boo-hoo crying when we moved to the county, and I- my mom was like, y'all have to go to RD-SCHOOL-1.
I was like,  I really-  we were like, both- me and RD-NAME-2, we were both  like, really sad.
We was like, we don't wanna go to that school.
We don't wanna go to that lame school.
Oh my God.
And then I became attached to them, so.
Well I became attached, I would say more so to the people than the school.
The school was something else, but the people- some of the people in the school are actually  decent.
Um, like,  right now I am a-  I'm not certified, but I am an optician at RD-WORK-2.
Which is  pretty much, um,  how people say the eyeglass lady or person  work with- I work with eyeglasses and contacts.
And,  um,  yep.
That's what I do for the work side of things.
I don't work  a lot,  probably about  fifteen hours a week.
Fifteen, twenty hours.
School.
I am a mass media major,  I am in my  junior year,    um, yes.
RD-SCHOOL-4.
Go Blazers.
Yes.
And they win, so.
Well- yes.
Yes.
He was- ooh.
I wanna say he was born in F-  was he born in Jacksonville, Florida?
I might be wrong on that but I think he was.
Okay.
She was born here in Valdosta.
He is a truck driver.
He hauls oil.
Um,  he's been doing-  well he hasn't been hauling oil for years, but he's been in the truck driving business since I was like, a little girl.
Like,  yup,  since I was born, pretty much.
Yup.
Nope.
He worked- I think when I-  what I first known is he first worked for Pepsi,  and then he worked for FedEx.
And then now he works for-  no he worked for a Sunoco in Texas-  was it in Texas or was it in  New Mexico?
It was Hobbs- Hobbs, New Mexico where he worked for Sunoco, and now he works for like, some guy who owns this private trucking company.
And  that's what he's doing in Texas right now.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yep, FedEx, that's where he was.
When he was here, he was doing FedEx.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Y- yeah.
Yeah, I mean, he was driving trucks at FedEx.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Yep, he did, yep.
He been doing that for years.
She- she used to work at a bank.
She's been working  for banking for about twenty to thirty  years,  maybe.
Maybe fifteen to twenty, I say fifteen, twenty years.
And- but now she's, um,  well  I don't know if I can say this.
But she should be  starting to work at the post office soon.
I'm not sure yet though, cause  she- I don't know if she accepted the offer.
But she was out of work for, um, some-  maybe a year,  a little over a year  probably.
When was that?
I don't know.
Twenty- Yep.
Mm-hm.
She was a little girl.
Yeah.
She was little little.
Around that time cause that was like, my freshman year.
Around my freshman year, sophomore year of high school and I start- we started  Lighthouse.
Pr- probably around that time.
Yep.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Wow, time just goes by so fast.
Oh my gosh, what am I doing?
Nothing, but it's just like, oh my gosh.
Okay.
Um.
Like what do you mean?
Like, how it looks, or?
M-  When I grew up  it seemed more  light and green and like,  flowers and butterflies.
And now it's just like,  I don't know.
Maybe I'm older and I'm seeing everything as it is,  so like,  rusted and  I ain't gonna say like, bad, but  rusted,  old.
Kind of  not in good shape,  but- I mean, I wouldn't say the neighborhood's bad, I would just say it's  not in good shape.
The neighborhood  and the house.
I d- I did play outside but I don't think it was kids in the neighborhood, I think it was people like, I would invite over or my mama would invite over for like a party.
I don't remember playing with kids a lot,  to be honest.
Maybe like, my cousins or something.
Like my m- maybe my childhood friends from school.
I don't remember like, neighborhood kids.
Yep.
What did I do?
I watched TV a lot.
Dora or Barney.
Or jumping on the bed with my cousins,  busting my head open,  had to get staples in my head.
Yeah.
That's what I r- remember from my childhood.
I don't remember playing outside a lot unless it was like, a birthday party or something and we had to stay outside.
It does feel different.
Like, it feels-  I mean, maybe it's just because I'm not a little kid anymore, but everything-  everything I had meaning to it, everything-  I mean, not had meaning to it but w- what's- what am I looking for?
What's the word like, everything  just seemed  to have a purpose, I guess?
Like, I was never bored.
But now I'm just like,  there's nothing to do around here.
But there- I'm sure there is something to do but   I don't know.
Yeah it's just like, I'm too old for that.
Yeah, so.
Me, my mom, and RD-NAME-1.
My little brother.
Mm-hm.
He's seventeen years old now.
Yep.
He's t- he's tall too.
He's tall.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Yep.
We were excited about getting it built, we just didn't wanna move, but  we kind of got over it.
The house was nice, um, all of use had our own rooms.
I had my own bathroom.
So that was nice.
Um.
Everybody had their own space.
The only bad thing about it, there was no good WiFi  at  the house.
So, we had to get like,  HughesNet or something, and it was like,  five gigabytes of internet  so we couldn't do nothing off of that.
And once the gigabytes were gone,  then it would slow down  and we couldn't use it.
But  other than that like, the house was great.
Um.
We used to  be able to let our dog out,  and she just run around the yard free, without a leash.
Now we gotta have a leash  back on her.
And, um,    it was nice, always nice weather it seemed like.
Uh, lot of trees.
Um,  but the trees weren't by our house so we didn't have to worry about trees falling on our house during like,  hurricane or anything like that.
Not-  not like Valdosta has like,  huge hurricanes, but.
Yeah som- I mean, there are some pretty strong storms, but never like,  extremely bad.
Um.
The yard,  I mean it was a big yard.
We had a neighbor.
He was-  yeah, we had a neighbor.
He has like, five kids- five, six kids.
He was a doctor  and his family is really nice.
Um, the boys would always come and play with my little brother.
Or my little brother would go over there and play.
Like, that was normal,  I felt like  it was good-  no.
It was, um, two boys-  hold on.
It was two boys,  and like, three girls, I wanna say,  And  they would play with them all the time.
They had a little farm too, like a little farm.
They had like,  chickens and,  um,  like,  pi- did they had a pig at one point or something?
I don't know, but  he- the dad built like,  their,  um, ooh-  the dad built their, um,  their little barn or whatever, by hisself or something like that.
It wasn't a big barn but it was like, a little mini barn, and they had like, the chickens and stuff.
And they got their eggs from the chickens and they would use the eggs.
And then like, they h- th- they had goats.
That's what it w- they had goats, and they would use goat milk and stuff.
So it was-  it was interesting living there, it was fun, I miss it, but.
Um, that was  like three years ago.
We moved to Lake Park  after we moved from that house.
Lake Park, I liked it.
Um, it had a pool  in the back.
The only thing was there was mice  in the house.
So like,  at night they would roam around in the kitchen and stuff.
And like, you would just like, walk in the kitchen and it's dark and you just see something run across the counter.
You just like, oh my gosh.
So I'm happy to be from there.
No, I think they- the way they built the house, it just wasn't like,  they- there was some kind of flaws in the house, like the infrastructure.
So it was  like, there was holes-  or there was like, a hole  somewhere  and they were getting through the hole.
I don't know.
It was weird- it was a nice house, it just  they had mice- it had mice.
Clyattville.
Um.
Like how did we move?
Right.
We moved because of financial reasons,  so we had to let it go.
It was sad and we actually- we went through a lot.
Like,  in the process of that like, mentally.
But, um,  we're better now.
I mean, it is what it is, things happen.
Um.
Eventually, um, if you doing all the right things  you can go back to that.
I mean, not that house, but you can go back to  living  how you want to live,  so.
Oh, I don't even know.
I just thought it was cool but, um,  my mom was like, we may be able to get our old house back.
I was like, how?
She said some- I don't know.
I don't know how we got it back honestly, but  we were able to get that house, it was nice  to be back in my childhood home.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Ooh.
Do I even remember what happened in elementary school?
I don't know, um,  what school was I in at that time?
Was it Valdosta RD-SCHOOL-3?
I really- I did.
But, um, V-  elementary school was fun.
I really l- enjoyed my teachers like, I was teacher pet all the time.
Oh,  they love-  they love me, but I love them and I r- I really  thank them for like, how-  like, they pushed me to do my best and  that's why I like- I do love Valdosta RD-NAME-3, like people be sleeping, but  they got the best teachers.
That's what I remember from Valdosta RD-NAME-3.
Um, I wanna say her name was Miss RD-NAME-1-  no,  it was Miss RD-NAME-2.
She ended up moving to California but she taught English, I wanna say.
But  she would always be like, you can do better than this RD-NAME-2 this is not  you.
She would always be- just be like,  this is better, you- you gotta do better than this.
And  I think  she is why w-  part of the reason why I am like I am today,  so.
I wanna say that was-  is fifth grade considered elementary?
It was- was it fifth grade or was it like, before-  it mighta been third grade.
You know what, it mighta been third grade  before I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I think that's- yeah, before I went back to RD-SCHOOL-2.
I wanna say that was third grade.
And she was my English teacher.
I loved  her.
She actually the only teacher I remember from third grade.
Mm-hm.
Hm.
Yeah, I liked-  I liked RD-SCHOOL-5.
I liked the band program.
And I, um,  I would always- my brother was at-  was he at RD-SCHOOL-5 at the same time I was?
Yes he was, he was in eighth grade and I was in sixth grade.
And, um, he was in the jazz- the jazz band, and I would always be like,  RD-NAME-2 let me play y'all music.
But I was in sixth grade, I couldn't play no jazz band music but I wanted to.
But, um,  I did like that part of  school,  RD-SCHOOL-6, and then I had to transfer to RD-NAME-1.
I did not like-  I did not like my first year at RD-SCHOOL-1.
Um,  I felt like I didn't know anybody, and  people were saying that I was mean, but I wasn't.
I think I was just-  I didn't wanna  talk to anybody.
Cause I didn't know anybody,  so.
I was.
I was standoffish but not mean, cause one of the girls I'm best friends with now,  she said that wouldn't talk to her, I roll my eyes at her,  and stuff like that.
And I promise you I don't- I don't roll my eyes at people,  but maybe I did.
I don't know.
I was probably just- I was like, I don't wanna be at this school, it's a lame school, but.
When I got to RD-SCHOOL-1  the only thing I did enjoy was the band.
I had to prove myself, and I ended up being first chair ahead of everybody that was there.
I was like, see we- we better than y'all at RD-NAME-3.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was cause RD-NAME-2 was in band, he played trombone.
And I actually, when I went to try out I talked to Mr.
RD-NAME-1 or Mr.
RD-NAME-2, I don't remember w- who.
I was like, my brother plays trombone, can I play trombone?
And they was like, just putting me on all these different instruments.
They had me try the tuba,  they had me try the flute, they had me try the clarinet, and they had me try  the trombone and trumpet.
And they told me to do trumpet,  so I did trumpet,  but I wanted to do trombone.
Yeah, but-    yeah.
Mm- he w- RD-NAME-2 is like my best friend, so- one of my best friends, so he-  like, everything he did I wanted to do.
Mm-hm.
I was good.
Mm-hm.
I promise you I was good.
Like, I- I knew I was good.
I don't r- ever remember being like, a bad trumpet player.
I don't remember.
I was first chair- I was first chair when I was in sixth grade.
And I was in the newspaper, too, for it.
Me and three other people were in the newspaper, it was a- me, a french horn player,  a saxophone player, and somebody else.
Cause I was like, one of the top  chair people.
When I picked up the instrument, I knew how to play it.
But I think it's because I had been practicing on RD-NAME-2's trombone, so.
Maybe I was bad, I don't know.
I don't remember being bad though.
Mm.
The band director really liked me and she, um.
I really enjoyed being in the program.
There were a lot of like, egos, though.
And I just couldn't like-  that's why I was like, I'm'a come in here and I'm'a  be first chair over all y'all.
Sorry, that sounds so confident but  I was so mad I had to transfer to RD-SCHOOL-1, but  the program was nice.
I ended up making friends and, um,  the band director, Miss RD-NAME-2, she, um,  she followed me like, all throughout high school.
Well from middle school to high school.
And she even t-  even still today, she want- she wants me to pick up my-  pick up my trumpet and play it again.
But I don't, I mean, I don't really have the passion for it anymore.
But, um,  yeah.
RD-SCHOOL-1 program was fun, the middle school  was alright,  but the high school was fun.
High school was definitely fun.
Um,  being, um,  I know people be like, damn they're not that good.
I know, but.
I love- I loved being in the Bridgemen because it was a  big family,  like, four hundred people.
You don't know everybody but  at the end of the day like, when it comes to competitions and stuff, everybody is one.
And it's just like,  that made me really value teamwork and,  um,  communication and whatnot.
Um,  especially on like, my job and stuff, but  I really enjoyed being in the program.
We had some good directors and  people who actually cared about us.
They taught us-  not etiquette, but they taught us how to  act  in public and  what to do, what not to do,  how to carry yourself.
And I think being in band also helped with my academics  as well.
I don't know.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah like, I don't know what it was but I felt- I felt like I could a-  I understood everything like- I don't know if it was maybe  cause in music you study the notes and stuff, and your brain is just always working.
Maybe with the marching and the  music, maybe coordinating it together  makes your brain just like,  work.
I guess that has something to do with it, I'm not sure.
Hm.
Like,  freshman year brand- band camp or senior year band camp?
Cause senior year band camp is a breeze,  but freshman year- Ooh, freshman year.
First off, we had to wear that ugly hat-  bridgie hat.
Um,  Pretty much a senior- what happens is, a senior-  I hate to say the word purchase,  but a senior would purchase you  and  you would have to put on this hat,  and they designed the hat.
You- they take the home- the hate home that night for whoever  they got- whoever- whichever freshman they got.
And, um,  like I think my senior year I had like, two freshman, but anyway.
Somebody bought me and they  decorated a hat for me.
It can be anything embarrassing or  just a awful hat, awful looking hat.
And you gotta wear it  until band camp- or until you win your first competition.
Yep.
And so that was not fun.
Um.
how was my hat?
My- my s-  I'm- I'm'a be honest, my senior did not care about my hat  and like, she just put-  it's like- it's like she put it together last minute or something, but.
Like, it had beads hanging from it, it would be just jiggling and stuff, and like-   it was just-  it was distracting- I think it had some feathers on it too.
I don't know, but  it was ugly, ugly little hat.
And I think by the end some stuff had fallen off of it.
But, um,  it was not a fun time.
I was like, I'm ready to be a senior, I don't wanna be  no lame kid just wearing a hat.
People be picking on me in band- they don't pick on you, but they kind of tease you a little bit say, hey hey bridgie, and stuff like that.
But, um,  yeah that was fun.
And, um-  but  a good thing that happened during my freshman year,   I tried out for first trumpet  and I made it.
I made first trumpet, so I was a freshmen  playing with  seniors  on the  trumpet part.
Marching.
Mm-hm.
Right.
We were at our practice field.
Um, we have a practice field um, so like, you mean  what happened during the day?
Okay so like, beginning of the day I think we had,  I wanna say we got together in sections, we had sectionals the first of the day.
Um.
And then we'd do that like, we'll fro- focus on one part of the music for that part of the day.
And then  lunch time comes,  we go to lunch of course, wherever.
And I think,  was it a hour?
How long was lunch?
I can't remember if it was a hour or what, and then we'd come back.
Um, and then we would come together as a band in the Cafetorium.
And then like,  put w- together what we  each did as a section.
We put it together as the band.
And,  um.
Once they were- the directors, were happy with what they heard, we would then take it out to the field  and see if we could  march  with that particular piece of music, and  keep that same  level of  consistency from the lunch room, standing still, to marching.
Um.
Well what I- what we had was books, um,  like flip books  and-  what was it?
Was it-  did we print out-  I can't remember.
They gave us each  like, drill sheets I think, or a drill packet or something.
But I wanna say it was on like, a smaller sheet.
Anyway, I had- I had my stuff in like, a little flip book- like an index card book, and I would put like, where I'm supposed to be for this set.
It was like a s- for one song, there's  however many sets for that song  and of course, you can like,  the way they have it on the picture, it shows what the formation is supposed to look like on the picture,  and you just find your spot on there, your number.
I think I was like, eighty or seventy, or something.
And  I would find my number on that  formation chart  and then I would go st-  well,  I would go stand there but they also had like,  two steps outside of  like, five yard line or  eight steps  from  whatever.
You know what I'm saying, like.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Wow.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Oh.
Uh-huh.
What?
Uh-huh.
Oh.
Oh, we didn't do that.
Oh my goodness, we were- we had so- we had completely different-  I think we-  we didn't mark anything, we just-  we would have to,  like literally go to that spot and like, do our steps.
And then, um,  then we would-  RD-NAME-2-- RD-NAME-2 would be like, stop, and then  we have to all be in our spots.
And if somebody's not right, he'll, like,  call 'em out and be like, that's not right you need to move like, two steps over.
And that's your correct spot, you need to remember this for the next time.
So, um,  it was nerve-wracking as a freshman cause I'm like, okay  this don't look right but also  you can't always go by the sheet, because somebody-  I mean like, just performance-wise you can't go by the sheet, because  the person next to you might  not hit their spot,  so you kind of have to fill in and make that arc anyway, no matter where you standing in.
You might be a little bit off from your spot, but you gotta make that arc or that  diagonal, but.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Mm-hm, yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Oh, yeah.
Those are hard.
Mm-hm.
Oh, wow.
Right, exactly, exactly.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Oops, sorry.
Senior year?
I was a section leader my senior year,  so.
It was easy.
I did.
I only tried out for drum major though, so I could get section leader.
No.
I never wanted to be drum major, nope.
But they was pretty much kind of telling people, ay if you try out for drum major y- you might have a better chance of becoming section leader because, I mean, it shows  that you are ready to lead because you tried out for drum major.
I don't know what their-   I don't know what their thing was behind that, but.
Tried out for drum major,  I ain't even have no routine for the song,  I was just like-   and you know who was actually, um,  one of the judges?
Mr.
RD-NAME-2.
RD-NAME-5 band director.
Oh yeah, that was way after your time?
Oh.
Oh.
Gotcha.
I bet he was like, this girl don't know nothing.
I was- I really just tried out just so I could get section leader though.
Um.
I felt like I was a leader.
I was a quiet leader, but I felt like I was a leader.
I feel like  I'm more so  show them  how to be  rather than tell them how to be.
So I was- a lot of people just  followed behind me, even if I didn't- I didn't have to tell them what to do.
I had- we had two other section leaders though, that would just always yell at 'em,  do this, do push-ups, do this and that.
But I felt like I was get- I would get more of a-  I would get more of a reaction, or more of, um,   what's the word I'm looking for?
I would get more results from just showing them,  rather than  yelling at them,  so.
Um.
I wanna say my section was  forty, fifty trumpets.
Forty, fifty.
I don't know, it was like f-  it was around that.
For about forty, fifty trumpets.
Mm-hm.
I don't even remember my hats, oh my gosh.
I don't remember what I did for my hats.
But I had two bridgies and sh- um, it was two girls.
One girl though I didn't see a lot, she was on the dance line for color guard, so I didn't see her a lot.
So it was a little bit weird with her, cause I never spoke to her.
But the other- my other bridgie was in my section,  and  she was sweet.
Um.
I don't-  I don't really- I didn't really have a connection, I felt, with my bridgies.
Probably the one that was in my section,  but I didn't really  connect with the other girl.
I didn't really even see her,  but.
Um, my hats- I don't remember what my hats were  to be honest with you.
Um.
It was-  I didn't like concert season cause it was boring.
I don't like sitting in the chair, just  playing music.
Seems boring.
It's boring to me, but    I liked going on the trips.
Um.
Like for marching band or concert band?
Marching band, um,  my freshman year we went to sh- New York, Chicago.
And my-  was it my junior year?
Was it my junior year we went somewhere else?
I went on ch- two trips during my high school,  um, being in high school but I don't remember where  my second trip was.
Where is the IKEA Parade, or-  I don't know where the IKEA Parade.
Philadelphia?
I went to-  Okay no, I went to New York and Philadelphia my freshman year and I went to Chicago my junior year  of high school.
Either my junior or senior year of high school.
We marched in the parade  f-  well New York, we marched in the  was it the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade?
Or some kind of parade.
And then the- my  junior, senior year, we marched in the IKEA Parade.
And  my  freshman year it was snowing-  it wasn't snowing, but it was like  snowing, hailing, raining  all at the same time.
So that was miserable.
Um.
My hands were f- they felt like they were finna fall off.
Cause all we- we didn't have like,  thick gloves, they were just like m- d- our regular marching gloves so like,  everything was going through and like, it was painful.
So  when we got back on the bus we was just ooh.
About to die.
But-  not about to die, but we were just like,  we couldn't do it.
Mm-mm.
And then my s-  I can't remember if it was my junior or senior year- I wanna junior year, but  we went to IKEA- or, we went to the IKEA Parade and  I don't think we did much in these cities because we were in a big group,  there was not much we could do.
We went to some little shops here and there, but I don't think I spent money  cause I think-  I think maybe they gave me like, two hundred dollars.
But like, in New York  and those other places are expensive.
Like  stuff,  like hats, souvenirs, anything, it expensive so  I don't think I got too much of anything.
If I did, I just got like,  something for my brother, and my mom, and my dad, and RD-NAME-1, but that's it.
Math.
I don't know, that was the only one I could get a hundred in.
Every year, I got a hundred in math every year of high school.
But, um, it was easy  to me.
Uh.
I couldn't tell you that.
Probably pre-algebra,  hm,   trigonometry,  s-  something starting with a G.
No, that's geometry, nope that's not math is it.
Is that math?
I don't think I took geometry, though.
Yeah, if- if I did take that was probably my least favorite too.
Um, yeah trig,  pre-algebra, then algebra- I didn't do calculus.
Mm-mm.
That was a AP course.
I did take some AP classes, but that was a AP course that I was not gonna take.
I did.
I was like,  seventy-something in my  class, it was like- like five hundred.
Um.
That just happened this year,  actually.
I actually, um, started out at RD-SCHOOL-3  and then  I took years off from school.
Like,  three-  when did I graduate high school?
Twenty fourteen, I went to RD-SCHOOL-3,  uh,  end of twenty fourteen,  so   I would say  I started- I've been out of school for  four years.
And I started at RD-SCHOOL-3  this year.
Actually I've been out of school for three years, cause I was at RD-SCHOOL-3 for two years.
And I- I got my associates in biology.
But I-  that don't really matter anymore.
Mm-mm.
Mass media.
Um.
Like, why did I make the decision?
Um.
I knew biology wasn't for me.
I was just doing it  to- I- cause I felt like  it's for a jobs and  like,  I felt like that would  best suit me and I would get the most money out of it.
But I saw  that I wasn't enjoying it and I probably could not make money off of it cause I don't even wanna finish it.
So.
It was so stressful and  I knew it wasn't for me.
And then I started doing like,  photography for my-  or for like, the football games and stuff, and I started actually writing articles on them and  started, um,  just helping my friend out  at RD-WORK-5.
And  so I was like,  hm, maybe I should  major in mass media  cause I really enjoy doing this.
And like, video production as well, I really enjoyed doing that.
And so I,  um,  so I was like, yeah let me-  let me major in mass media.
And  I actually am learning right now how to write scripts for like,  movies or maybe a show.
Um.
Learning how to report, how to write  journalism,  all kinds of stuff.
I love it.
Ultimately, what I would want to do,    um, is probably  be like an  editor for like, a big magazine.
Or  a photo journalist, just traveling the world  and  taking pictures and like,  doing blogs and stuff about it.
Does that makes sense?
Like,  I don't- I don't know.
I really love taking pictures but I also love film and stuff, so I'm thinking-  it's like three jobs that I wanna do.
So like,  editor of a magazine or something,  um, photo journalist,  um,  maybe a filmmaker, producer.
Probably editor of a magazine or something.
Either that or the photo journalist.
I'm moving.
California.
It's a big place, it's a lot to do.
A lot of connections I can make.
You know what part.
Los Angeles.
I know the cost of living is probably super high, but    hey.
I'll be ready by then.
Like, I'll- I'll be ready to throw my coins.
At that point.
I wouldn't say two, three years, no.
I think I would need something in between first, and then go.
Like,  maybe  Atlanta or like, Savannah, Georgia, or  s- I gotta- I gotta have some kind of breakthrough  before  I go to LA.
And I'm expecting- a b- a breakthrough sometime between  here and  LA.
No.
Like, what do you-  like, you mean going out to eat or something like that?
Like, I mean, We don't have traditions, now that I think about it.
You mean like, my entire family?
Like,  grandma,  cousins, and stuff?
When I think traditions, I think of like, reunions, but we haven't had one of those in years.
And  I mean, I don't really talk to like,  my out- outside family, like outside of  my mama and daddy and grandma.
I don't talk to them.
Yep.
Um.
Um, I grew up,  um, and we went to-  we were going to Union Cathedral, which is-  well at the time, it was called Greater Union, I think.
So  at the time it was Greater Union, um,  and  that was a fun church.
It was  like, the choir was always like,  popping  and stuff.
Um.
Sunday school, we used to go to Sunday school.
I don't remember much of it though.
I don't remember much from my-  I feel like it was a blur,  you know?
Is your youth a blur?
Like, I remember certain things but I can't like, put something down in details.
I mean, I remember we used to go to like, theme parks a lot during the summer.
I would go on vacation though.
Yeah, just with my family.
Like, I don't remember church traditions, so.
I remember my mom used to always try to get us to do like-  she wanted me to be in dance or something.
And like,  and she wanted my brother to be on step team.
We didn't wanna do that.
I don't even- I can't even dance.
She said, you can dance.
I'm like, no I cannot.
I can't dance.
I'm just like my dad, stiff.
I am stiff.
Yeah, we would.
Yeah, we would go out to eat every- after church every Sunday, usually.
Like, usually we go to Cracker Barrel.
It wasn't my favorite but, yeah it was- I guess a family favorite.
Not my favorite.
My favorite restaurant?
Ooh.
What is my favorite restaurant?
I like anywhere with like, seafood.
Or Chik-fil-A.
Uh.
There wasn't a church, um, before that.
We went to Greater Union and then like, when we decided to leave Greater Union,  we were like, searching for churches so we were going all around  and stuff.
And then we like,  found Lighthouse  you know just up l- right on the little corner.
So we were like, let's go to this church.
And we liked it because Pastor RD-NAME-3 was like,  he was very-  like he wasn't one of those pastors that-  that's gonna scream the word at you,  he pretty much teaches it.
And that's why we decided to go,  but, um,  of course  we don't go there anymore.
But,  that's pretty much why we  chose Lighthouse  after Greater Union, cause we went to visit a lot of churches.
We went to Crossroads, we went to CrossPointe.
We had visited  some church  it was like, a Church of Christ but it was-  it wasn't a- It wasn't a good experience.
Cause my dad in the middle  of the service, he cracked a joke.
I mean, it wasn't like-  I mean, it wasn't-  he didn't crack a joke, like nobody heard it, but he started laughing.
And like, them-  them people in there were like,  they weren't a very-  they don't even think they use like, music or anything.
Yeah.
They might sing but it- it's not like  piano, guitar, nothing like that,  so it was awkward.
And we had to sit the rest of the service until it was over.
That was a no.
Mm-hm.
I don't know.
Yeah I think y'all just came like, at- one day at church and y'all just was like, hey we doing Girls of Grace,  you know.
I think I saw that was to it, I was like, I ain't wanna do it.
I remember not wanting to do it, but I do remember I r- I remember liking it.
Yeah, I just don't remember wanting to do it.
Mm-hm.
Standoffish.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my gosh.
That's just my personality.
When I-  well not anymore.
But that like,  at the time I was like,  what was I?
Like, fifteen years old, sixteen?
Younger?
But I was like,  not- never in a good mood.
I don't know why.
I think I was depressed at that time,  so.
I had a lot of stuff going on in my mind.
Not in my life, but in my mind.
Demons.
What?
Did I?
Did I really?
Oh my gosh, what in the world.
That makes sense, though.
She- she suffers from depression.
But at the time- I mean, at the time I was suffering from depression.
And her music was, yeah at the time.
I wasn't.
How do you remember that?
Hm.
You probably got it in your, like, notebook or something.
No?
Hm.
Gotcha.
Really?
Yeah, cause she was on Disney Channel, but she was just an actress.
Yeah, no she wasn't.
Mm-hm.
Wow.
Wow, Demi Lovato.
I can't believe I said that.
Hm.
Interesting.
Cause I have a whole new-  like, I- I listen to Demi, but I- like, I have a whole new person,  now.
Tori Kelly.
Tori Kelly is amazing.
Yes.
My favorite song is, It Is Well, from her newest album.
Uh, I liked her since that  v- YouTube video when she was singing with the girl who was beatboxing Thinking About You.
And I also knew her from American Idol, when Simon said no to her.
And like,  he was telling her, her voice was aggravating and stuff.
So I was like, oh my gosh Simon.
Oh.
But I started following her on YouTube and stuff, and  I've been following her for years now.
Like, I think that video was released in like, two thousand  twelve or something.
No, maybe sooner than that,  but.
Yeah, you do.
It's a good video.
That's like her- that was like her- not coming out video, but that was like her-  when she first- when people started noticing her,  was that video.
And I've been to see her live.
Yes.
Atlanta.
And now I'm seeing her in April.
Orlando.
In Atlanta, she w- wasn't performing with anybody.
But-  I mean, there was her- there was her group and that was it.
Like, when her- when she sung It Is Well, she had a group of people, but that's like the people who sing in the background.
Really?
Hm.
Was it that- was that from last year?
Oh.
I didn't go see her during the summer.
She mighta had another concert before then, or she was on tour or something.
She's always on tour.
So it mighta been Atlanta, but  f- for this, the show I went to, there was no like, special guests or anything.
Oh.
Oh, it was probably either Kierra Sheard or Kirk Franklin or,  um,  somebody else that was on the album.
Her newest album.
I don't know, it was somebody else that was on the album.
Pop?
Ariana Grande?
She was with Ariana Grande for one, like, place.
But it wasn't, um,  it wasn't on this past tour.
It's okay.
Yes.
No, it's okay.
Oh my gosh.
Just blessings, because I was actually a cashier.
And, um, somebody was scouting me  while I was on the register,  and I was just like,  one day my, um,  like, the- when the MSS is over, RD-NAME-2 came and was like,  um, hey the- this lady wants you over in optical to talk with her.
I was like,  okay that's a little bit weird, but okay I'll go.
And, um,  so I went  and she was like, hi would you like to- would you be interested in working  in my d- in this department?
I was like,  I don't know nothing about glasses.
But she was like,  do you want to work in this department?
I was like,  yes ma'am.
I guess.
And, I mean, there was a pay raise so I was like, sure.
But she interviewed me and  got me on there.
She had been like, scouting me the whole time and looking at me and like,  watching my work ethic and stuff.
So she was like,  she'll be perfect over here.
And she was like, and she's black, so.
She is.
Yes.
You know her?
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
Small world.
But yeah, she recruited me over there and, um,  she don't work over there anymore but she's-  she recruited me and she started me over there.
She's at Walmart on RD-ADDRESS-3 Road.
She works in that department.
Yep.
Really?
Oh, yep.
She did go.
Yup.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Right.
I don't know if they do, but I've heard her say something about Antioch before.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, very.
I wasn't either, I wasn't, I wasn't.
I wasn't, I wasn't.
Oh my gosh.
Mm.
Ooh.
I've been in this rivalry forever.
But, um,  so  pretty much- like talk about it as far as people who don't know it?
So,  I think the RD-SCHOOL-1, RD-SCHOOL-3 rivalry has been around since  whenever Lowndes became a school.
Cause I'm pretty sure Vald- I think Valdosta was a school before Lowndes was a school, right?
Were they?
Okay.
Anyway,  but, um.
I mean, they're two high schools in the same city.
And  they don't like each other for some odd reason.
I mean, they are on two different sides of the city so I guess,  but not really though.
Cause like,  I mean, not really.
They're not really on two different sides of the city.
They like what, twenty minutes away from each other?
Fifteen, twenty minutes?
But anyway, yeah.
I guess, but anyway there's a rivalry.
Um,  pretty much with- just with the football team though.
It's not really basketball  and-  I mean, somewhat with basketball, but not on like, the level of football.
Like I remember  the rivalry being people fighting after games because their team lost and stuff like that.
It used to be very violent.
From what I remember.
I used to- I think I started going to the games when  my best friend that I grew up with,  her sister was in the  band at Valdosta,  and we used to always sit with  the band.
And  after the game, if it was a Lowndes, Valdosta game, it would just be  violent so  the sister of my  best friend would be like, y'all need to wait.
Um,  wait for me  to come out the band room before y'all go anywhere,  stuff like that.
So yeah, that was  a intense time.
I didn't know nothing about football though, at the time.
I was just like, oh, this is fun.
I like hearing the band.
So nice.
I don't care about football.
But  I started to grow to love football, and I loved the rivalry that-  that it-  takes place.
It's not violent or anything.
Like it's trash-talking on  Facebook.
That's it, pretty much.
No fighting that I know of.
Betting, a lot of betting goes on.
I don't bet because-  I mean I don't- who-  who trying to lose money?
But-  cause you never know, each year is-  each year you never know.
Both teams have  pretty good teams and  each year, y- year in and year out, so I don't know.
It just depends on the year, you never know if your team's gonna win or not.
I remember one year, um,  Valdosta won in like, the last forty seconds of the game?
And  I was like, really saddened.
That's when I was at RD-SCHOOL-1.
I was like, oh my gosh.
And my brother was- we was all just standing on the- in the stands like, what in the world just happened?
The last forty seconds.
And like, they just came back and won.
I think it was like, two, three touchdowns  in forty seconds.
It was twenty twelve, it was my brother's senior year.
No, w- was it his- yeah it was his senior year, cause we-  we had a winning streak and we lost his senior year of high school.
It was so sad.
Really?
Oh my gosh.
Oof.
The rivalry is just- I was sad.
But it is what it is.
Football.
Like high school level, college level,  NFL?
Okay.
Um, high school, obviously  RD-SCHOOL-1.
Um, college, um,  Georgia and Blazers.
Georgia and VSU.
Um.
And co- NFL,  I don't sometimes wanna claim the Falcons, but  I'm'a claim them anyway.
But I like the Falcons.
They be losing and stuff.
Yeah.
They had They had a chance and they just, you know,  doing what Georgia teams do  best.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Yep.
That's a Georgia thing, yep.
It is.