Three fifteen, nineteen fifty-nine.
Valdosta, Georgia.
The west side  RD-ADDRESS-6.
Mm, predominantly all my life except  there was a brief period I moved,  but I moved back.
Mm.
About ten years.
When I moved?
Oklahoma City.
Nope.
RD-SCHOOL-3 city school system.
Well,  when I moved, I was in Oklahoma, I went to RD-SCHOOL-2.
And got my AA.
And then I- when I moved back,  um,  I went to RD-SCHOOL-4,  to get my BA.
Oh, and I have a master's  from RD-SCHOOL-7 which, that was a online course.
Online courses I did.
Actually I have two master's.
One in counseling and one in, um,  oh heck, I forgot what I got it in.
Well both of them is in Human Services.
One is more  dealing with, um,  gerontology.
And the other one is counseling.
Wow.
Case manager.
If I'm not mistaken, I believe he was born in Valdosta as well.
Really.
Definitely Valdosta, Georgia.
By a midwife.
He used to be a custodian at  a university.
No not a uni- no- not a university, at a nursing home.
I remember.
I think it was a nursing home.
My mom she started off, um,  anyway, she became a nurse for a psych ward.
Psychiatric ward.
Mm.
Um,  since nineteen eighty-three.
Most definitely.
The neighborhood was exactly like it said, it take a building to raise and child and that's what they did.
Um,  we had  elderly people looking out for you.
Um,  when you went to school,  they're your parents.
On the way from school, the people in the neighborhood was your parents.
When you got home, you dealt with your parents, if you had any problems with the ones that you were  passing along the way.
So everybody  took a hand and help raising children.
If they seen you do something wrong, of course they reported it to your parents.
And they were allowed to  take care of the situation and then your parents took care of the situation.
So it was a double dose.
Sometimes you got a triple.
Depending on what the situation was.
Nope.
I never lived with  either of my parents.
My grandmother was my-  my- I guess you can say she was my rock.
Cause she was the one that  took me from a baby on.
I never ever lived with my mom.
Never ever lived with my dad.
My grandmother took me from the first day  I came into the world.
Mm-hm.
RD-NAME-4.
When I was young my-   my aunt RD-NAME-3  lived there  and my aunt  RD-NAME-3 lived there.
So it was two of my aunts that lived there at the time.
And sadly  enough, my aunt RD-NAME-3, she, um,  she committed suicide.
In nineteen sixty-three.
So.
And as a child-  Is it sixty-three?
It was sixty-three, or sixty-five.
It was one of tha- At- at that time I was five years old.
And my perception of things were really-  really like a little kid, because  when the lady came running to the school, I was at the kindergarten.
It was just only a block from the house,  she come running and said, um,  that my aunt had hung herself and I'm thinking,  oh my god.
And  then I see this big trash truck,  pass by, and I'm thinking, oh, they got her on this trash truck.
You know, it wa- it was-  it was crazy that was my first  imagination, cause I didn't know.
So I- I thought she was on the trash truck, but  later I found out differently.
Yup.
And  it was the first time in my whole life I ever seen  my grandmother shed a tear.
And  it was-  it was  tough for her.
It was real tough.
Yes.
RD-NAME-3 was a l-  maybe a couple of years older than  RD-NAME-3 was.
So,  yep.
it was a very sad time.
I had-  well,  cross the street there was some  kids, um,  RD-NAME-3,  was  a  childhood friend.
And  then these people meet up- moved on the corner, sh- and she had a lot of kids.
that was the RD-NAME-1 family.
And so,  we would play games all- They w- they would skate I couldn't skate, I was-  I- I just didn't have that mobility to do that.
But  we would  listen to music,  we'd play hopscotch, we would play jackstones.
Even shoot a few marbles.
Growing up w- and, uh,  we did jump rope so.
We play a lot of childhood-  we were outside, we was not  glued to a TV like kids are now.
Technology wasn't,  um,  highly rated as it is today.
We-  Outside was our  fun and games, but when those street lights came on, you'd better be in- on that porch or in the house.
So, that's how it  was for us.
Well, with marbles you  y- you line 'em all up.
It's kind of like you put 'em on a hill.
Well actually,  well you kind of have to take-  You have your  dominant marble,  there's a whole bunch of marbles, you make a circle in the sand,  put the marbles on the inside,  and the  object of the game  is to shoot the marbles outside of the circle.
And the person that shoots the marbles outside of the circle,  they  take ownership of those marbles.
Okay, but if you miss, then the other person  gets to come in and- and do the same thing.
And it goes back and forth until all the marbles are outside of the circle,  pretty much it.
I was dern good at it.
I used to steal my cousin- get-  Well,  not steal 'em, but  I would used to beat him out on 'em.
I would-  Charles.
Hm, yep.
We used to- I used to get down there and I used to-  yep.
I- I was pretty good with it.
Yep, marbles, jackstones, and the bolo bats.
The bolo bats is-  is that little  wood board that had a ball on the  string- on a- and string, and you just  keep  bumping it, bumping it, bumping it back and forth.
I was good at that.
Now one thing I wasn't good at was the yo-yo.
Never could get the-  I don't know.
It wouldn't work for me,  but-  And the hula hoop.
I didn't have the hips for the hula hoop either.
But  other than that, I had it.
Mm-hm.
Oh, child, yes, yes, yes.
I used to ride-  we used to ride out on,  uh, James Road.
Way out there.
I used to have a- a friend named Steve.
And, uh, another friend named RD-NAME-2.
And we would ride in the evening time.
RD-NAME-2 live way out on James Road.
And sometime we would ride out that way.
But, yep.
I used to ride.
And then I-  My grandma bought me a bicycle one time,  the bicycle was very expensive.
And it was one that you could take apart.
And I was the only one that ever had one.
But it- it was- it was real nice  and I wore it out, but  yep.
Yeah.
It was-  I think I did.
I did pretty good.
I did pretty good in school.
I bet I coulda did better,  had I had  somebody to  just,  mm,  I'm not saying my grandma wasn't supportive, but she worked.
And you know,  she wasn't,  uh,   like oriented to-  Say, okay-  well you know what, maybe it was a lack of knowledge.
Because like, when I finished  high school,  um,  having-  Thinking that you had the ability to go to college was  kind of a far-fetch idea which  there was a lot of things out there, but  we wasn't aware of 'em, so.
Therefore you settle- I settled for  going to technical school  to begin with.
So I went to RD-SCHOOL-7,  and back then they had the-  uh,  I went for computer programming.
And they had them cobalt computer things and all that.
It was- it was very tedious.
It was very-  uh, it was  really a headache.
It was  crazy from where we've come now, to  technology now, so.
It was-  but I- I feel like I woulda had somebody that  knew the ins and outs.
Knew what was available,  especially with governmental programs that was available,  we wasn't aware at that time.
Now that we know we- we're- you know, we use those things.
But, um,   I think that's  where  I felt kind of limited and in a box.
Cause I would've  went on to college instead of going to a technical school to start off with.
I just felt like we couldn't afford it.
Well I knew you could go to college, but  just the thing of it, is that, it was like  it wasn't  something that  was talked about so much.
Opening like they do not- Everybody-  When they ended up-  That's great, they talking about, oh, I'm going to this college, you know.
Back then,  college was  more for the  I would call them sadittity people.
You know, if you had  a little money or something, that's- those are the people that were talking about college, you know.
People I went to school with, a few of 'em had money, their parents had money.
They were educated, so  therefore they already had, you know, kind of groomed and programmed their kids about college.
Me, I had nobody to, you know  tell me about college,  so.
Like I said, I settled for  trade school.
Mm-hm.
Seventies.
Mm.
Mm.
I think a combination of both.
But more so,  the financial  part.
Because  round in th-  Well, about the earl-  early seventies, s- you start seeing the changes.
People start  doing a little different.
You start seeing some breakthroughs.
I even remember,  as a child my- well  not a child, but  maybe  early teens and my aunt them,  walk- did a walkout at school, they boycotted the school.
Um, because of  racial injustices, so.
Um,  I think it was a combination of both, because we even still had,  when I was growing up,  probably around about third grade or so,  we even had a-  a restaurant that had-  only whites really went there.
And if-  if you were  colored so to speak, they'd  g- g- go to the back door and get a sandwich or something.
But, uh,  it's time when old things change.
And that ra- that restaurant is still in business.
But it's- I- The perception of it has  totally changed.
I'm sure, I'm-  Actually, I think I went in there one time- went in that door one time, but I- I don't think I ever purchased anything.
I don't even know- remember why I went in there.
But I- I never ever  was a patron, of that, uh, restaurant.
You know King's Grill, right over there on the corner of, uh- Mm-hm.
That was one of the  most racial  discrimitory   um,  restaurants.
Mm-hm.
That- that was- that was the part, the place.
I think they were always open.
I never s- I don't think they ever closed.
Yep.
Well you know I had that too.
I had a couple of things under my belt.
I had that  well and actually, in high school, they- we had a ta- cosmetology class.
And so,  um,  I was like, only, um,   one semester from completing,  um,  to get the  license, but I didn't never finish it.
But, uh,  yeah.
I could- I could do- I used to do hair,  when I was coming up.
Braid a lot,  .
Anyway, so  yep.
That was one of the things, occupations I had.
Or not occupations, but one of the things I could do,  that made a little bit of money on the side.
We ain't have much money, so five, or ten dollars, that was a lot when  a kid gave you five dollars to do their hair.
And then I remember,  this old lady used to have me do her, um,  grandkid's hair, so I did that on the regular.
I would wash it and press it and curl it and they looked so  beautiful.
But  that was one of the things I-  I've done.
Now I- I- I'm older and I like- I don't even know how to do hair anymore.
It's- it's kind of funny  how things evolve around.
Anyway,  but I guess I- push come to shove, I could do it.
But, um,  I do- I do know how to do some things.
Some things you'll never forget.
Curling is one of them.
I- I can curl.
Just having the right equipment to do it with.
the old times were kind that's what works.
What school?
Trade school?
Um, I was probably about seventeen cause I-  seventeen, about seventeen.
Cause I finished school at sixteen  and  turned seventeen.
Had a kid at seventeen.
And  then after that I start going to trade school, so.
Between seventeen, eighteen.
And I went there for a couple of years.
And then my cousin came along, he was in the military.
And, um,  I moved to Oklahoma with them.
To see could I get a-  a new start.
I try to  change things.
Make  my life better.
And so that's how I wound up in Oklahoma.
Stayed there  ten years.
In the process of that,  got married, got divorced, had a child.
And then I moved back to Valdosta.
That's a lot of things happening, in ten years.
Oh, it- They were very supportive.
I mean,  um.
In fact when I moved, they wanted to keep him, but I-  I took him with me.
And then eventually,  on- during the summer breaks,  he would come down  and visit.
But  just  getting  all the things in- in- in motion for s- like, daycare  and when work- The one thing about it, when I went there I had  my cousins, they were very supportive.
I wor- I took a night job so that  I could be  home in the daytime, so I had him in the daytime.
And then eventually I moved out, cause I stayed with them on base for a while.
Then I moved to my own apartment,    And  so there was some,  um,  governmental plans.
Where I- he could get daycare,  while I worked.
And the things like that, so that was  very helpful at that time.
No.
That wasn't The Salvation Army at that time, no.
He went to, um,    oh, I can't think of it.
I- but I know it's on fifty-ninth.
At this other daycare.
Um.
And then he went to RD-SCHOOL-3 schools up- Uh,  no.
He went to another school before then.
It was-  I can't think of the name of the school either.
But  whatever that school was, a bus would come and  transport 'em from school to  back to the daycare.
So,  and at that time, I- I took a job at, a-  a hotel and I was  like the  hostess for the lobby.
I kept  pretty much  the lobby,  um,  in check.
Made coffee and stuff like that.
And then they had a position open where  they needed a s-  um,    manager slash supervisor for  house keeping department.
And eventually I worked myself into that.
And I did that a couple of years.
And I found- Let me see,  my last job that I was there, I worked at a  RD-WORK-6.
And I was working in the custodian part, that's when I s-  um,    this girl,  inspired me.
She said, I don't know, you say you are smart.
Why don't you go- go to school.
And she kept every  time I'd see her, she would tell me that.
And so that's how I ended up at RD-SCHOOL-2.
Cause she just kept  pushing me and pushing me.
Said, I don't know why you won't  get yourself in school.
You can go to college- go, you know.
And eventually I got myself  signed up.
And I was there.
And, um,  I'm- When I got there,  after I guess the semester or so,  I met this girl,  and we been friends ever since.
Her name is RD-NAME-5.
Well she was RD-NAME-3 at that time.
And  we've  been friends ever since.
So that's been over  what?
Twenty  five years at least  bare minimum.
And then I had another friend too,  um,  when I moved from my cousin's house to a apartments,  over there, um,  on RD-ADDRESS-3 street,  Southeast RD-ADDRESS-3.
I'm trying to think,  it was called RD-ADDRESS-5.
And it was RD-SCHOOL-2 school, or something like that.
Yeah.
Uh, RD-NAME-3,  She had this little girl.
Oh, she was just a doll.
I wanted a little girl.
I said, ooh can I have your little girl?
And, um,  they called her Ms.
Piggy.
And I thought she was just the  cutest little thing ever.
And, um,  so we became friends.
And so, we've been friends ever since as well.
So that's pretty much it.
How I got there.
Then afte- When I stayed in RD-ADDRESS-2 apartments,  I met, um,  my husband  RD-NAME-5.
So, after a few months,  we decided we wanted to get married.
We did.
Well a few- Well let me see.
How many years were we married before we got- had,  mm.
Hm.
i-  maybe about  two years.
Two and a half years, we just-  We didn't really decide, cause I don't think at that time, he wanted no kids.
But anyway,  I got pregnant, I wasn't getting rid of it, so.
I had it.
But  in the end, he really  was proud that he had a daughter.
Very very much so.
So it kind of worked out.
Everything kind of worked out.
Then I moved back here cause my grandma was ailing.
And  getting older.
And  she had been my rock and so this was the opportunity for me to be her rock, so.
I said okay.
That's what I need to do.
I need to move.
And I did.
And I don't regret one minute.
Yep, I did.
It was- it was just,  god opening a door  for me.
You know I close one, but another one came open because  the lady she worked for,  you know, she was ailing, my grandmother was ailing so she couldn't  no longer be her  caregiver to her, so.
I kind of  stepped in that position  and it worked out really well.
It- it really did.
So,  I had  more than I could ever  wish for.
We were blessed.
I mean you have to understand, coming from a poor  perspective and being able to  do some things that you thought you'd never be able to do,  travel,  eat well,  travel,  and just have a good time.
So we- we did.
We had a good time.
And  not only i- it was just me, it was my  me and my family, as well as,  the person that I was,  um,  caring for.
She always wanted to be a part of it, so.
We go, she go too.
So,  that's how that went.
We were just one happy family all together.
And when my daughter decided to go to college,  and  she was  talking about going to Washington,  which was like, ooh, that's a long way, but  I- it- I didn't fret about it, cause I tried to  give her some of the things that I didn't have.
I wanted her to be able to  see some of the world.
And she was able to go abroad a couple of times, I think  during the course of that.
So I know she wa- you know, she was well versed and she could-  she could handle herself.
So when she decided she wanted to go to DC, I said,  alright.
But we as one big family got the who- U-Haul together and  rolled on up to DC,  so.
That's why I be at in and out,  um,  from DC to Michigan to  back to DC.
So it's been a-  I've had a full life, it's been full circle, pretty much.
And then my little one came along,  that's a story within itself.
But thank god she was blessed that she's still alive.
There was some  complications with her, but  Like I say we're grateful and thankful  that she is  thriving.
She's thriving real good.
Sometime I think she's thriving better than me.
Well she's doing real good.
Which one?
Oh my god, yes.
It was woo.
Yes.
Had you on pins and needles.
And I know it was,  real scary for the mother,  which is you.
Um,  but I think things  come your way so it  just teach you a little bit more patience, a little more  grace.
A little more  thanksgiving- I'm not saying we not thankful, but it just really  just let you know that  god is in control  and he's not gonna put  no more on you than you can bare.
And I believe that wholeheartedly that  no matter what we went through,  he brought us through.
And still bringing us through.
Um,  we have been really blessed over the  last  three or four years, for sure.
There hasn't been,  um,    less running to the hospital, less running to the doctor, so.
I'll knock on some wood,  thankful and grateful for that.
Cause at one time, that's where we lived at the hospital,  we lived at a doctor's office, so.
We got a lot to be thankful for.
Even though my little granddaughter, she is  extra,  she's spoiled,  And you know, I don't know how the spoiledness came in there, but  it just-  just- just got there.
And  I be trying to do,  what I'm sposta do as a grandparent.
I- I really do as far as  cause I want her to be,  even though she's spoiled, I want her to be a good spoiled.
I don't want her to be the person that  when people see her coming, they say, ugh.
I don't want that.
I want her to be a person that  people will like.
And be  glad to have around.
And I think she's that.
Cause I- I- I think when she goes other places,  she knows  how to act when she needs to act.
I- I really think so.
Um,  so,  I think she gonna be okay.
I really do.
Oh lord, I have a new grandbaby.
Which- well he's not new now.
He's  twelve months  one year  old.
In fact, his birthday was on the twenty-first.
And we're getting ready to celebrate.
A big party today.
Um,  he's-  he's more than a notion.
He's gonna be  a handful.
But he's gonna be all boy.
All boy.
He's just a busy little body.
He is  as cute as he wants to be.
And  he's a joy to be around.
Every last one of 'em.
Yep.
My- I see my-  the little boy is  just like his daddy.
And  the little girl,  somewhat like her momma, that there- there,  a-  ppearances  as far as  looking alike, as that- at that age,  and  the-  Even though RD-NAME-3,  her interests are a little different than,  um,  RD-NAME-2's was when she was little,  the persistence,  about whatever she want do i- it just-  it's just there.
She has these blocks,  and she wants to play with the blocks,  RD-NAME-2 used to like to read,  she wanted to read all the time.
So,  I see RD-NAME-3's persis-  persistence as the same as RD-NAME-2's when it comes to- It might be different interests, but  their persistence is the same.
Yes.
Most definitely.
You see how she acts.
Oh god, yes.
Anybody had the-  My grandmother had to get up at three o'clock in the morning to make green beans, you know.
Persistence, yeah.
What would you call that?
Okay.
Well, a lover of green beans then.
School,  school.
You had to teach.
Always teaching somebody something.
So,  RD-NAME-3  she's teaching people how to build.
That sort of thing.
Anybody comes through the door,  blocks.
Persi-  So that's the same thing, but just  different interests,  but the persistence is there.
Mm.
Oh man was that a grand slam.
I- I need another one of those.
I've got- Hopefully I'll live long enough where I can get another one of them  coming sometime soon.
Oh my daughter did it right.
She did it right.
She hooked me up.
I love Vegas.
Well not so much Vegas.
But I- I just like  the, um,  atmosphere of the  slot machines.
I- I like 'em I don't know why, it's-  it's the jingle and the  tingling of the bells, or whatever and that   I love, I love it, I love it.
Well anyway, my daughter,  got some of my friends,  uh, my  few friends I have,  as well as, um,  a couple of relatives  and we all,  went to  Las Vegas.
It was the bomb.
We got shirts made, oh it was so nice.
And then we had this m- beautiful, beautiful dinner.
What was the name of that place?
Oh, yeah yeah.
Ah yes.
We had the limo ride- ah, not only that,  one person I didn't expect to see,  was there.
M- my cousin.
She showed up  and we got the limo ride, and we got to the room,  and when we got it where we had adjoining rooms.
And  we were in the room  and all of a sudden this person come  out the adjoining room,  which I had no idea she was going to be there either.
Oh my god.
It was just like  I- uh, yeah I was speechless.
It was-  it was awesome.
That was one of the best birthdays I ever had.
It- it really was.
And actually I think that was one of the  biggest parties I ever had, cause I don't think-  as a kid I don't remember- I remember we had ma- cake and ice cream, but  to say a big birthday party like most people have,  I don't think  I ever had really had a  birthday party.
In fact I know I didn't.
I know we just probably-  Our family members, you know had, some cake and ice cream, or something like that, but  didn't really have no birthday party.
Not-  not at my house.
So,  that was a real treat at fifty.
It- it was awesome.
Never can forget it.
Just looking forward to another one.
Oh lord.
How many mo- more years I've gotta wait?
Two more?
I'm fifty-eight now.
I hope I be ready.
I need to have me a couple of  grand saved back so I can just really- Uh, who graduating?
Oh, ho, yeah yeah.
True, true, true, true.
Oh, wow.
Really you know what?
I have,  I've been blessed.
I've been to- I've been abroad myself so I can knock on wood on that.
I've been able to, uh,  travel abroad I-  I never thought I'd be able to do that.
But I've been to Ghana,  three times.
Um,  I'm thinking would I like to go, uh, i- i- anywhere else abroad.
I don't know.
Um,  Nah, there's nothing I regret, cause I mean  I've been able to  have a new car off the shor- uh, off the showroom.
I mean  with zero miles, well maybe,  five, ten miles cause somebody else  got in it or whatever.
They moved it to the showroom, but.
You know I've been blessed, I- you know  coming up poor and  been able to  actually,  afford a couple of new cars.
And,  um,  you know,  pay for 'em.
I think that's-  that's-  that's good.
Mm.
I mean,  I'm not a materialistic person.
I don't-  I don't live in a big fancy house, I live in  a old house from my neighborhood.
I live right next door to where I was born,  um,  two bedrooms.
Just plain and simple.
I don't have all the old fancy stuff.
Now trust me now, if I wanted to go out and buy the Pier One this Pier One that  I could do that, but I don't- that's-  that's not who I am.
I feel like I'm'a I- I'm- I was born to  help others.
And  sometimes I don't understand the  helping of others  myself,  but  when  the good master speak to my heart and he say, you need to do this.
I do what I- I don't- I can't understand all of it.
I- I don't  and I ain't- I'm not trying to understand all of it, but  I'm just a-  a giver.
And so,  those things doesn't mean anything to me, so.
I'd rather help somebody  then to  just have something hanging on the wall, just to say you got  this little thing hanging on the wall.
Basically all I need is a computer, a desk and a bed.
That's pretty much it.
I have more than that.
Yeah now trust me, I- you know, but  I'm- I'm not  a very materialistic  person.
Hm.
Yeah.
I remember the day my grandmother called me,  she was sick.
And I didn't actually  get the phone call- I didn't actually pick up the phone when she actually called me  it was on my voicemail.
And she said,  I need you .
And I thought I was going to die at that point in time.
I quickly put some clothes on  got  in the car, rushed off.
And I was driving like a bat out of heck.
And I was I- w- a- at the same time, I was calling nine-one-one.
And  I had my flashers on, but I can remember going down that street and the lady say,  you need to slow down, you need to calm down.
And I- it was like I was hyperventilating.
I couldn't hardly breathe and I was just,  going around with this driving.
I was crying, I was screaming, I was hollering.
All these emotions just,  coming out at the same time.
And I'm driving so fast, but I'm- I'm trying to  be aware of my  driving so I won't wreck, you know, wreck, cause I needed to get there.
And good thing we didn't live very far away.
It was like maybe a five, six minutes drive.
And when I got there and she was all slumped over like she was, it was just-  Oh, I just thought my whole world was gone.
I- Oh my god,  it- I just lost it.
And so,  paramedics came and  so they,  th-  they just  told me to, move out the way, move out the way because I was, you know, blocking what they had to do.
So I was in the front.
And I was just like, couldn't hardly breathe.
I was just-   And- and- and so they were gonna take her to the hospital, so okay, I get  in the car and I head to the hospital.
But it takes them a long time to get there.
They finally get there with her,    and  thank god she was-  she  came out okay, you know.
I mean there was  other things going on, but  she was able to  revive enough and come back,  um,  home you know.
And- and be home, but  at that point,  when she returned home, I  told god thank you.
Because I know he did it for me.
That he didn't take her that particular day.
But he was getting me ready,  in case something did happen.
So,  that was one of the days in my life that I thought I would die.
And had she had died, I'm- I probably would have had a heart attack.
I probably would have had a heart attack.
But  I was so grateful,  that  he didn't let her go  that day.
So,  yeah.
Oh god,  that's another event as well.
I-  uh, maybe that could be a expression.
I thought  I tried to maintain because we- I- wer- we- t- I was already tired.
We had been off on a trip.
And we was getting ready to come back home.
And we were driving out, in fact I was-  I can remember where I was at.
I was in Dothan, Alabama getting ready to turn,  like you're getting ready, headed-  um,  to Donalsonville.
And I was on that street, and it was almost at the light  and I get this call and it's like,  oh my g- god.
And I- I could just see everything, just  my- my vision of  you telling me you had a stroke was just like, oh my god, you know, cause  most stroke patients are all paralyzed, their everything is-  and I'm thinking, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord.
And  my first instinct was to keep driving.
Just don't even stop home, just keep driving.
And then,  a voice came to me and said,  calm down, she's at the hospital.
They got her.
They're taking care of her.
You're not gonna be any good to her if you don't  settle down and- and take care of yourself, so you can get there.
So I listened.
And I told him, I said, okay, I'm not gonna leave right now.
We gonna  go and I'm gonna lay down and  try to get some rest and  we'll leave early morning.
And that's what we did.
We left and we got to the hospital.
That was a very, very, scary, scary, scary moment for me.
Because I'm thinking  she's too young  to have a  stroke.
What in the world happened?
Then I'm thinking, did  she  fall and hit hersel-  Did something hit her, or?
What happened?
You know.
And as of today,  we still wondering what happened.
And I hope they keep searching til they find out what happened.
But yeah, that was another scary event.
Yeah, that was  very very traumatizing.
And  m- I'm still worried.
And  I- I just  hope you'll slow down some.
I- I know you trying to get this graduate school thing done.
I- I wanna get that done and out the way.
But at the same time, not at the expense of your health.
So,  try to balance.
Mkay.
Hm.
Wow.
My favorite book,  mm,  Mm.
You know what, it might seem it's-  Let me see here,  my favorite book I have-  Maybe I don't have a favorite book.
Mm, favorite movie,  what movie I can look at it and keep looking at it and keep looking at it.
I don't know, maybe I just don't have one.
Um,  I'm trying to- One I really like is-  I like quite a few.
I like Meet the Browns.
I like Meet the Browns.
Cause it tells of the story of the struggle as a single parent.
And his kid was able to make it in-  When the kid got on top, the father wasn't really there.
He was absent father, but when he-  Father got there, I mean when the kid got on top,  the father wanted to be in the limelight,  but he didn't forget where he came from.
He didn't forget his mom.
I like that.
When I was a kid, that's what we did.
We went to church, we went to Sunday school, we went to everything, BTU.
Uh, that's-  that's  part of our growing up.
We was at church  and, um, this was- started with angel choir.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
Choir director.
It was just choir director.
And that came from- that stemmed from-  that didn't happen til I went to Oklahoma and came back.
Cause when I was in Oklahoma,  I sang with what we called a TJ choir and that was a  a mass choir in the church that I belonged to, Evangelistic Missionary Baptist Church.
Um,  and they were  an excellent choir.
I learned a lot.
Especially from Ms.
RD-NAME-2, that was, uh,  one of the main directors.
Um, of the choir.
And, um,  she was just a inspiration to me.
Um,  and so when I came back home,  I started helping out  with the  youth choir and so,  just worked there for  a good while.
I like to sing, so.
It was, you know,  something that I was doing.
Some o- One of the talents that I had.
Just putting it to use.
Uh, yeah.
Soon as you get older, you forget about all that stuff you used to do, I mean,  but that was just a part of the-  who I was, to have a kid, you know,  um, stay over, and  do things with them.
Um,  Just keeping 'em involved in something positive so they wouldn't  be a product of the streets.
I think that was the main thing.
Want to,  try to keep our kids safe.
Uh,  I work as a case manager.
And, I work in a residential facility, which is,  um,  youth that are sent there, are-  are-  a- are there because the judge  has mandated  them to  come to our program.
And our program will usually last from six to nine months.
It's, uh,  these youth that have-  that are there,  have committed crimes.
From battery, to carjacking, to,  uh,  petty  theft.
Uh, grand larceny.
Just  you name it,  they have done it.
Um,  and so that's  the population that I'm working with now.
Not only that, most of 'em have some kind of-  Well actually.
most of them,  um,  have low IQ scores as well.
Um,  so,  that's why they're- Our program is designed for  the mentally challenged.
So that's why we say, you know,  if they don't m- meet a certain criteria,  um,  as far as  Ice c- IQ scores,  um,  they're usually sent to our program.
So- and the age range is from  twelve to  eighteen,  generally.
it i-  it is.
And  I've been in, my position about-  actually eleven years on the  fifth of July will be my anniversary, so that be eleven years.
Um,  and  over the eleven years, the population of the kids  that we're seeing,  is changing.
And it's changing with the trends.
You have more kids now that are involved in gang activity.
And so it even because more difficult to,  um,  work with those kids, because  not only y- are you trying to  pull them in a- or- or help guide them in a different direction,  but they're being pulled by  another group.
So,  it becomes difficult for them to make that choice of what they wanna do.
Um,  and most of them,  my feeling is, most of them  will return back to  where they left  when they  came into the program.
So,  the percentage of kids,  making a turnaround  doing what they  need to do  and be able to go back in there- in society and you know, be  a productive citizen.
It's grim.
It looks-  And it looks real gray.
It's- it's very gray and it's  and it's real sad.
It's really sad because  even when you pour yourself into a person and- and you feel like  they,  uh, some of 'em, just,  uh,    how do you say it,  they just do enough to escape, they just  play the game to  get by and you can tell it, you can tell when they're genuine, or not genuine.
Um,  and that's what I see a lot of  and  so my expression to them when I-  when they first come in is that  we're here to help you, we can't change you, you're the one that can change yourself.
Um,  but if you want my help, I'm willing to do, what I can do  a hundred and ten percent,  or more.
But if you don't want my help, don't waste my time because there-  there might be that one child out there that really wants to change.
And so,  I don't wanna waste my time  with you.
If you do not- gonna, you know.
Do what you need to do.
And that's my speech  to them.
And-  and I s-  s- told them the way I would know that they want to make the change is  in their actions, what they do,  on a daily basis.
They have what they called point cards.
And  if a kid is doing what he's sposta do,  he'll make his level.
And he'll stay on level so,  that's a indicator of-  one of the indicators of  whether they  really are serious about what they wanna do.
Um,  and  really  pretty much  kind of  got some goals set for themselves.
We have different  programs they can be involved in.
And so if they show interest in  wanna do that and  have tried to  keep this stuff on level so they can participate in different off  prog- off campus programs and stuff.
And  you know, they're asking questions and  I- maybe I say asking the right questions and  doing the right things  that you know that  pretty much that kid is  trying to  get hisself together.
We've had, um,  a couple of kids that's interested in going to Job Corps so  we have those,  um,  respected people to come out and talk with them and,  uh, sometimes they take them to their offices, so they can s-  you know, see,  um,  the program they have available and stuff like that, so  there's-  there's hope if they want it  I'll put it like that.
But they have to want it.
And if you don't want it, guess what, it's not gonna happen.
And some no matter what I do, I can talk til I'm blue in the face and it's not gonna work  until they decide they wanna change,  you know.
And some of 'em get so close to the door, getting ready to go home and then they'll make a stupid decision.
Uh, get involved in somebody else's  junk.
And then they-  their time be extended in the program, so.
We've had that.
I just recently had a case that was like that, so.
At the end of the day,  it's what you decide how you want to do.
And what you wanna do.
And  when they decide they wanna  do what they need to do, guess what?
We're there to help 'em a hundred percent.
Um,  well,  that is one.
Um, bet I hadn't shelled peas in a long time.
Another southern tradition we used to do is when the, uh, peach field open up, we always go out and pick peaches.
Um,  I enjoyed that.
But the bugs are  getting bad these-  As you get older you don't  enjoy that as well- as much as you used to.
Um,    another- let me see, another southern tradition we do,  Mm.
You know I didn't socialize that much in Oklahoma.
I don't- I don't socialize that much in Valdosta either, but,  uh,    but I would have  a couple of relatives over and  we'd probab-  fix us some good old pig feet and  you know, have a  good little  dinner, or something together like that, that's  some southern type food, fried chicken.
Mm,  good old, uh, potato salad.
We do that every once in a while.
Have a nice little dinner.
My grandmother.
At age five I was right by her side on-  trying to learn how to cook on the stove, so.
Yep.
Of what?
Oh,  I must say when I took her to  Biloxi,  to gamble.
It was so cute.
I took her and the- the person that I was taking care of.
And my other aunt, she went with us.
They were so cute.
They had their little quarters in these cups at that time, they-  The quarters would come out the machine.
And they put they money in and it-  it  ringing a little bit and they won some quarters.
Oh, you'd thought they had won a million dollars.
They were just so cute, I enjoyed that with her  just to see her baby laughing, experience something-  something new and different that  she would never have experienced if  you know, I wouldn't have taken her.
Oh, she had to be  at least  about seventy-five.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
Seventy-five, seventy-  Might've even been a little older.
Yeah.
Maybe eighty.
Maybe she was about eighty.
You were in college.
Yeah, maybe eighty, yeah.
Yeah, you were in college.
But we got to do that.
Cause yeah, RD-NAME-2 was still alive with Ms.
RD-NAME-2.
So we all went.
And that's when I got that truck, so.
We all went in the truck.
Mm-hm.
Yep.
We did.
Sure did.
Um,  enjoy today for today,  um,  do what you can today  and tomorrow will take care of itself.
Because I think so many times people get so wrapped up and caught on-  caught up on things that,  uh, are way off in- in- in the future that they-  they're thinking that they need to do.
that they let the whole day slip by, and don't even enjoy the day.
They can't see beyond-  they can't see today for what it is.
Worried about,  something probably they really ain't going to have no control over anyway,  so.
Make the best of it, do what you can.
Things you can change, you do.
And things you can't, you say a prayer and you keep going on.
That's-  that's it.