Huh.
Uh, psh.
No.
You- you moved- you moved to Valdosta before I did.
Remember I went to Aunt Sue house.
Uh-huh.
Oh I loved going to church.
I used to love to sing in the choir.
Yeah.
I had a lot of fun at church you know.
people were really-  I don't know what it was.
It just,  it was just like they was  just good people.
And they always  i- w-  like a-  like a real family, like another family  you know.
And, um,  you used to love to go to church  all the time.
Cause you had these  various ladies that used to  watch over you.
it's just-   You had your own-  you had your own, special  babysitters.
Oh man, that was something.
And, um,  the people at church were just-  they were just great people,  you know.
I had a lot of fun, you know what I'm saying.
You got to go to church conventions and-  and sh- stuff so-  stuff like that.
Um.
I used to love musical time.
When they- when  when they used to put on them big musicals.
The church would be so packed you can't even hardly ge- find a seat.
You have to get there early.
Yeah.
Yes.
I heard.
I heard.
I heard y'all was trying to go and then mama- Yeah mama say she wasn't feeling well.
So,  yeah.
She said she wasn't gonna push it.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Lynn Donna, Ms.
Piggy.
Mm-hm.
Oh man.
She was a-  You know what, RD-NAME-3 was-  yeah she was-  Matter of fact, she was Ms.
Teen  Oklahoma at one point.
You know, she was in the running for Ms.
Teen Oklahoma.
Yup.
Beautiful.
Very beautiful.
Yeah.
She went to Spelman.
Yes she did.
And she married a doctor.
Not surprised neither.
Nope.
Um,  you know what, the last time I actually got a chance to see RD-NAME-3,  was when she was at Spelman.
And I drove up.
And we kicked it.
And  she wrote me a few letters after that, but then,  um,  I t- oh you know I- no- no, I take that back.
Um, the last time I actually did talk to her was, uh, right before she got-  she got married.
Uh-huh.
And, um,  so, um, just so happen,  I don't even know.
I just called  they old phone number, cause I was like, man.
I sure would like to talk to RD-NAME-3.
And she was home.
And they still- The whol- the old house phone umber.
She was home- I was looking through my, um,  looking through some old numbers, and I was like man I don't even believ  I wonder if the RD-NAME-1's still have this number,  you know what I'm saying.
So,  yeah.
They still had the same number.
After all these years.
Yup.
And I talked to her.
She told me she was getting married.
So,  I sent her,  so, I think it was a crystal punch bowl,  or something like that.
I had mama order it for me.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know what?
The last night, the last night I spent,  in Val- uh, well in Oklahoma city,  I spent it with RD-NAME-3.
We went to a double movie feature.
Yeah.
We went to see,  uh, Mo' Money and Boomerang.
Yup.
Shoot, but we didn't watch the movies.
No, that was not RD-NAME-3.
She wasn't driving.
We wasn't driving then.
I wa- I knew how to drive, but I didn't actually have a license then.
Uh-huh.
Right.
Mm-hm.
Right.
Thomasville was great.
I-  I got a lot of-  a lot of slack because you know  coming in, I'm'a s- I'm'a junior  trying out for- I had to try out for another football team.
Didn't nobody know me.
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah, I made the team.
Yeah.
And, uh, I ended up hurting my knee that year.
And, I think was the last year- Yeah that was the least year I played because  I hurt my knee so bad that-  that I was kind of  kind of sceptibal you know what I'm saying.
I had to come over here and try out another team.
I just didn't wanna go through the same hassle.
So I didn't play football my next year.
My senior year I didn't play football,  but  you know what I'm saying.
I still got a few college offers.
But then I was like man, shoot.
I just didn't feel it no more,  so I just let it go.
But then actually they- kept, uh- actually coach RD-NAME-2-  coach RD-NAME-2 kept begging me to play over here.
And I didn't play.
Yup.
Oh man.
I moved back to Valdosta in-  I ended up graduating,  um, my partner, my best friend Steve came down to my graduation.
I was hanging with the wrong crowd.
Well,  I can't say really hanging with the wrong crowd,  cause I used to go pick the crowd up.
So.
It was like  I just fell into a different mode  when I came back here.
I really didn't wanna be here.
So I just,  kind of  I don't know just explored different a-  different avenues.
Um,  dealing with the streets.
You know.
Doing wild stuff.
Being wild.
Acting crazy, drinking.
You know what I'm saying.
Smoking.
You know.
Just  being a wild teenager.
No, this was before mama came.
Yeah- cause see, when mama got- Actually, well,  well, um, yeah, but we was here- We was in the house when-  when all this was going on.
Yeah because my mom- mama- mama- when mama came home it was my senior year.
So she came.
I stayed one year in Thomasville and then  we moved over here into the house that we're in now.
Mm-hm.
That she's currently staying in.
Yes.
Uh.
I felt like maybe I woulda-  I don't know why, but I probably wouldn't have got in so much trouble.
You know what I'm saying.
I- i-  You know it was- it was more stuff for  young men to do.
It was- And then I always had something going on.
If I wasn't,  uh,  it was just more structure.
So,  when you, once she took me away from the structure,  it was just more time I had, more idle time here.
You know, so.
I just felt like,  m-  maybe that woulda been the place for me.
I shoulda stayed.
I shoulda stayed regardless to what-  I shoulda stayed.
And  maybe went on to school, and- and I- never- you never know.
Even with this-  even with, um,  my church family.
You know.
It was always something going on and then Me and Steve was always kicking it.
You know what I'm saying, on the weekends.
And  you know it was just always something going on.
Parties,  my partner Cal when I used to kick it with Cal, when-  Or I go hang at Jed.
I still was kicking it with Jed.
You know what I'm saying.
It was just  you know,  I had a lot of-  um,  How can I say it?
Uh, my environment was a whole lot healthier.
You know what I'm saying.
Even though-  even though where we stayed it was a lot going on.
You know what I'm saying.
And I kicked it with some of them guys too,  to a certain extent.
But I always like to be-  as I so call say the boss.
So,  I wasn't gonna let this cat tell me what to do, or how to do what I wanted to do.
I was gonna do it on my own.
So.
Uh.
Uh, well, after high school,  I was working, going to school.
And then  you know,  uh,  quit working.
And started hustling.
And  ended up getting in trouble.
And then ended up getting on probation.
Then ended up- uh,  ended up, uh,  I was on probation  and then I had, uh  I had got into a high speed chase  and  so I went to get a probation bond.
And ended up going to prison.
Mm.
Which I couldn't believe, but  I- you know.
Um,  and then from there I served my time.
Went to boot camp, served my time.
Got out.
You know what I'm saying.
Trying to do things differently.
But  after a while,  you know.
Not being-  oh, excuse me.
Not being able to find a job.
Nobody wanting to hire me.
So I fell back into hustling.
And, um,  got in some more trouble.
Ended up getting-  going back to prison again.
You know.
And then,  through a course of action, you know.
Got out again.
Trying to get a job.
Got a job.
Job wasn't paying well, so I started back hustling again.
Ended up getting in some more trouble  You know what I'm saying, on some various other things.
But then I ended up,  um,  going to prison and then  when I got out of prison, I had a split sentence, so  I ended up, uh, having to move  to another location.
Uh, because, uh, I took a banishment  to try to move from the area.
Well, which wasn't bad- well-  well I- I can't say it was all bad, but it-  it was a bad idea but knowing  when you first getting out  and then you got-  you got seventy two hours to-  to leave where you-  your home.
And  try to go find you somewhere else to stay.
So.
I went and tried some various places.
I went back to Oklahoma for a while,  but then I ended up in Tifton.
So.
It was just, you know.
Tifton was great though.
I had a good time in Tifton.
I-  I tried to do the school thing over there, but ended up, uh,  you know what I'm saying.
Um.
I got in-  I got in some-  got in some trouble over there.
With the woman I was staying with and ended up having to withdraw.
So that kind of messed me up.
You know.
But yeah.
Through that course of action man.
I just- you know- I don't know.
Maybe, I- maybe I wouldn't have ended up-  well,  uh, the end is not yet so.
You know, you never know the end yet so.
Still got life.
The last time I got in trouble?
No.
The last time I got in trouble was when I left Tifton.
And came over here.
Came back over- when I moved back over here.
Uh,  that was,  uh, two thousand no- no- no- no.
I got in trouble when I got back over here.
W- I moved from Tifton  and got in trouble,  that was two thousand five.
Two thousand eight, was the last time I got in trouble.
Mm-hm.
Yup.
Yeah.
Yeah that's when,  I was on the no call,  no show list.
I mean, I don't know why.
That's something that my  beloved  sister that I love so much in the whole wide world has to tell me why.
She say that she didn't wanna deal with the gated community.
And  I can feel that.
I can understand that.
But  yet and still,  I felt like,  well,  true enough.
You don't have to deal with the gated community.
But  you should deal with your brother.
Because your brother,  is your brother.
Regardless to where I'm at,  or wherever I may go, or wherever I may be,  you know what I'm saying.
I'm still your brother.
Yes.
RD-NAME-3  RD-NAME-3 whe- when you got pregnant.
Yes.
That- that changed our relationship.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, you sent me a ultrasound.
And I couldn't believe it.
And- and then I was really shocked because you had wrote me.
You know what I'm saying.
And you was like,  Aw something had .
And then-  So I was like,  wow.
You know what I'm saying.
She's finna have a baby.
And then I couldn't believe it.
I was like,  and is she talking to me?
You know what I'm saying.
She said she wasn't talking to me, jus- n- nobody in the gated community.
And  yes we had.
And then  it was a scary moment because  you was having problems with your pregnancy.
So that was scary.
Uh-huh.
Yes, yes.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm the whole time.
Yup.
Yup.
Yep, I remember that.
And I got- and I got shipped.
And I got shipped from there.
Um,  not too long after that.
Yep.
You brought RD-NAME-3 to see me.
Oh that w- she was so beautiful.
Her little chubby self.
That's when she was so chubby then.
I remember them little fat cheeks.
Oh man.
And she was in her little,  it's w- didn't she have a little, uh, bimbo  That's the first time- I thought it wa- Oh no- Oh no I thought it-  No?
Uh.
That's right, yeah.
Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yeah.
Yep, it did.
I ended up, uh, settling down and,  uh, went to work with my daddy.
And  I had a beautiful niece.
Somebody that loved me.
So I used to come over here all the time.
And come over here and get her and keep her and  just love on her.
And  come watch her do therapy.
You know what I'm saying, because she wasn't walking at the time.
And she was struggling,  with speech.
And now she's putting words together.
She's walking.
It's just amazing.
And then not only that I ended up, uh,  I ended up getting married,  and now I have a son.
Yes they  are.
Right.
Right.
Isn't that something.
And it's backwards.
Cause- because yes and it's backwards.
Yep.
Cause- Mm-hm.
Uh-huh.
Oh shit, I had several of those.
Well- Well one night be and Calvin was at a- a part- You got a water?
I need a water.
Oh.
Yeah.
But, uh,  Mm.
Okay so,  one night, me and- uh, we- it's a- it's a, um, end of the school year party.
My ninth grade year.
So, uh,  me and my partner Calvin,  we going to the party.
So,  we at Calvin's house, we getting dressed.
Getting ready to go to the party,  um, they had it in his- his, uh, apartment complex.
They m- somebod-  One of the, um, students from the school rented out  the apartment building to have a-  have a party.
So we go to the party.
Well,  I had some problems with  some cats at school,  that didn't like me because of from- where I was from.
And then they was from- in the end, well  put it like this,  the cats-  the cats- The neighborhood I stayed in,  they were beefing with the neighborhood these other guys stayed in.
So,  they knew I was from that neighborhood.
So,  um, when we was in the party I seen the guys  and they seen me, you know what I'm saying.
Which I ain't really  we weren't really tripping, I was having a good time, you know.
Not thinking, you know what I'm saying, that they gonna  try to do something to me, or you know what I'm saying.
Trying to fight.
You know what I'm saying.
Well,  one of the dudes approached me.
You know what I'm saying.
He was like, yeah, nigga you gonna die tonight.
I was like man I ain't stunting that.
I was like, man go ahead- excuse me.
I was like man go ahead on man.
He was like, yo.
I'm gonna catch you outside.
So, uh,  I was like, man.
So I-   So I went over there.
I told Cal, like man, look man,  these cats tripping man.
You know what I'm saying, on this neighborhood.
On this neighborhood beef stuff, you know what I'm saying.
I might need to go on-  go on and leave man.
So,  we seen the cats, you know what I'm saying.
They was on the dance floor,  so me and Cal, we eased out it was like,  maybe,  twelve thirty  you know what I'm saying.
So we eased out.
So we ease out the door,  and, uh,  when we get out the door,  it's a whole lot more  of the same cats from the same neighborhood,  as before the cats from my neighborhood.
So, I'm like, ah, man.
I'm looking crazy.
I like, well  I know Calvin gonna ride with me,  but I don't want Calvin to get messed up.
You know what I'm saying, there nothing that.
We really both ain't got nothing, you know what I'm saying.
Nothing really, you know,  going on with this situation.
So-  so we get out the door,  and, uh,  so one of the dudes approached me, we were like, man.
He was like what up, R-Dog, I was like, what up.
So, um,  he was like, yeah man, you know what I'm saying man.
You know we gotta get at you.
I was like, man, I ain't really tripping about all that, man.
I said man, I just came  you know what I'm saying man, it's is the end of the school year man.
Y'all out there fooling to go man.
You know what I'm saying man.
Look at- look at how many of y'all is-  it's just me bruh.
So you- so y'all wanna ride on me  like that?
You know what I'm saying.
You know.
I said man, there are about ten of y'all man.
You know what I'm saying.
So by this time,  the cat that really didn't like me,  he coming out the door.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  but this the one that told me I was gonna die tonight.
So as he coming out the door,  you know what I'm saying,  I just- I say man, you know.
it's too much going on.
It's too many cats.
You know what I'm saying.
So I just spo- I just hit-  I just hit dude that was in front of me,  you know what I'm saying.
I hit him,  Calvin hit the other dude that was in front of him.
And we took off running.
So after we take off running,  you know what I'm saying,  the guy that was coming out the door, he go to shoot.
And man,  as he shooting,  I can literally-  I can literally- I can- I'm telling you, I can hear the bullets  flying across my head.
I can hear it.
So we ducked through this- like this volleyball c- I mean,  tennis area.
We ducked through there, then we cut behind some apartment buildings.
You know what I'm saying.
I'm running for my li- I ain't never ran this hard in my life.
Calvin is the fastest dude  on the men's- on- on the bo- on- in our high school.
He was the fastest dude  at our high school man.
I was  keeping up with him, running.
That's how fast I was running .
Scared for my life, you know what I'm saying.
Right.
And I'm a heavy set dude.
So when we got back to Calvin daddy house,  you know what I'm saying,  Calvin daddy, you know, he's a- he's marine.
So,  he was like, what happened?
Get the guns.
you know what I'm saying.
Boy I'm talking about- Boy I felt good cause get what he call one of his army buddies, his army buddy came over there.
You know what I'm saying.
Boy he done gave me a pistol he gave Calvin a pistol.
Boy now we riding looking for them.
You know what I'm saying.
So after all that- Oh yeah,  oh yeah,  that's what I'm talking about.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  after the shooting,  after the shooting occurred,  everything shut off.
You know what I'm saying, so it wasn't nobody in sight.
So he took me on home.
But that was one of the nights man.
That-  that wa- that was really close.
That was real close.
Yup.
And  it was crazy.
You know what I'm saying.
I don't even know,  um,  if Calvin will remember that night.
You know what I'm saying.
But yeah, that was-  that was a close night, that night.
Real close.
July seventeen,  yeah I remember that.
Yeah that was, you know,  that was like the worst feeling in the world to me.
You know what I'm saying, because  for you  to be  hurting like that,  and then  I mean I always feel, that, you know what I'm saying.
I would-  I would probably go before you and mama would.
Just due to-  to the things that  I've  done in my life.
So I feel that I  probably,  would be the first one to-  something major to happen to.
Or  you know what I'm saying.
On his sick bed, or something like that.
But for you to have a stroke like that,  It just really throwed us off.
and  it really  and  I had to  tell your mama to breathe  because she really didn't,  you know,  she gripped the steering wheel so tight.
You know what I'm saying.
And I was like, mama you got to breathe.
I say, now you got to breathe now.
You know.
And  really you know the thing was, man.
We- we-  we were coming back  from the casino  and we hadn't did that- Me and mama hadn't did good.
You know what I'm saying.
Actually I hadn't did good at all.
Boy I had onl-  woo, I had onl- Boy I had it all messed up.
My money, the church's money.
Boy the pastor, boy.
Boy the building fund boy I'm talking about I had done went down through it boy I'm talking about ooh wee.
boy, I-  So,  but  the strangest thing happened.
You know what I'm saying.
So I- s- so sh- mama asked me, she was like,  well we gonna turn around, we gonna get on I-  you going?
And I'm like, yeah we going.
That's my sister.
Is you crazy?
You know what I'm saying RD-NAME-2's in the car.
This was RD-NAME-2's first road trip.
You know what I'm saying, so.
We was coming back.
You know what I'm saying, so.
We came on back and, um,  we got everything together,  um,  Lisa, we had to end up buying a- um,  we had to end up buying a plug so Lisa could pump.
you know what I'm saying.
But we- we made it home.
But this is what's crazy,  I came home-  I came home,  I had-  thirty two dollars to my name.
And I went to the, um, little casino that we got here,  and I was in there, I was like man,  man I won't tell mama.
We going somewhere.
I ain't got no money to go no where.
You know what I'm saying.
I don't finna be trying to go somewhere and I ain't got no money.
You know.
I know she got me,  you know what I'm saying.
But still, I need some money.
So I was in there playing in the casino.
And I got down to my last two dollars.
Only had thirty two dollars with me.
I got down to my last two dollars.
And hit eleven ninety-nine on the dollar.
eleven ninety-nine times a dollar.
Yup sure did.
Gave me eleven hundred dollars and some change.
Yeah.
Sure did.
And I was like, oh thank you lord.
I need this money to go up the road.
It was meant for me to go, it was meant for me to be there.
So,  I told-  I told mama all of a sudden, we ain't got to worry about no gas.
She was like, no we can just go half on gas.
I said, okay.
But if we go half on gas, I say I'm buying  the food on the way up here.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  and  I was able  to  put some money back.
You know what I'm saying.
That I had went into that I wasn't supposed to go into.
Before it got notified.
So I was able to put that back.
You know what I'm saying, without a trace.
You know what I'm saying so.
It- it- man, but  when we got there,  and  it- it hurt me so bad because  you know what I'm saying.
I-  My sister kno- well,  she probably do know,  how much  that, uh,  I really look up to her.
You know what I'm saying.
She's going to get her PhD.
You know what I'm saying.
And  that means a lot to me.
You know what I'm saying.
I brag about it all the time.
You know what I'm saying.
My genius.
You know, cause she's my genius.
I don't care  it could be  twenty other people that smarter her  in the whole wide world, but she my genius.
She's the smartest person I know.
I can put my hands on it.
You know.
So,  for you to have  a speech impairment- impediment  you know what I'm saying, when you weren't speaking well.
And  that-  that you know,  you was kind of moving slowly kind of-  kind of messed me up, you know what I'm saying, because  I was like  no lord, you know.
She got so much more,  you know,  to do.
You know what I'm saying.
Don't hinder her now.
But  actually it's been a blessing  to you because now  you still  fought through,  you know what I'm saying.
And the recovery of your speech,  what you're doing now,  and you're still pushing.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  you know.
God has the last say so.
You know,  and  it made me  lean  not onto my ow- own understanding  because you don't know  what plan,  or  what-  what god has for-  Or his purpose for this person.
So,  or what they have to go through sometimes.
Which I never want anybody- w- I would- I would never want that on- you know what I'm saying?
For you to have to go through anything like that.
You know what I'm saying, but  it's a story in that.
You know.
Look at you now.
You know what I'm saying.
And I'm- and I'm like, wow.
You know what I'm saying.
because I've- I've- I've-  I've known some people  that haven't recovered  from strokes.
You know what I'm saying.
Or- or if they did recover, you know what I'm saying, they have some-  You know they arm is not working, or they have, you know what I'm saying.
Things that's going on  that you can really tell.
You know what I'm saying.
But if-  if you don't tell nobody, nobody'll never know.
Yeah.
I mean-  So that was like,    motivation for me.
You know what I'm saying.
to-  to try to do better and be better.
You know.
I say here it is.
I said now RD-NAME-2 done had a stroke, she still getting it.
Amazing.
You're just a doer.
You ever heard of that  that saying?
Um,  you have some doers and you have some don'ters You haven't never heard of that?
You're a doer.
Yeah.
You're a doer.
No matter what it is, you'll do it.
You know what I'm saying?
that means that,  No matter what somebody says, or what obstacle comes,  you'll still do it.
You know.
You don't have a lot of doers you know what I'm saying .
You don't.
Not from this community.
You know what I'm saying.
But I see a lot of times,  you know- And  you didn't-  You know, uh,  and  I was just actually talking to some- uh,  some guys the other day.
You know what I'm saying.
And they was asking me,  well why- why you wait so late?
I say man, it ain't never too late man, to make a change, or I try to do something to better yourself.
I say man, I'm trying to better myself, it is not really-  it's just for me.
It's not  for you,  it's not for  my wife, or my son.
It's,  you know  I would like to be in a position where-  You know what I'm saying.
Wait when my son is in the  seventh grade and he doing math I-  I know what he talking about.
You know what I'm saying, that I can help him.
But,  you know what I'm saying, when your son doing seventh grade math can you help?
I said man, th- that's something to think about man.
Don't you wanna be in a- in a position man where you can help your children?
You know what I'm saying, with they homework.
If he's reading something and it's not correct, don't you wanna be able to-  be able to correct it?
Well that's a run-on sentence there son.
You know what I'm saying.
That's a prepositional phrase.
You know what I'm saying.
You wanna know those little things.
You know what I'm saying.
And i- it's a lot of little things that I had to learn all over again.
I'm talking about   pronouns,  adverbs,  um,  how to use, um,  transitional words, uh, when you're writing a essay.
I'm telling you man it's- i- hey, you know.
My plate has been full.
You know what saying , I'm telling you.
Oh,  what is a quadratic?
You know what I'm saying, oh man.
Shoot, factoring quadratics.
Woah.
You know what I'm saying, uh.
Using the calculator and using the square root button and then having to type something else with the parenthesis and all that.
And- and then trying to get it to factor this, sometimes you can't type it all in.
You gotta type a certain portion of the problem in.
You know what I'm saying.
And then do that and then come back.
And then you still got to solve it.
Aw man.
It's been a bitch much for the guy.
You- psh, hey  I'm talking about I been down the road.
I'm talking about my head, boy I come home some- and some days man, and I just go straight to sleep  cause my head hurt.
I'm physically-  It's like I- I be physically beat up.
Yeah.
I leave out the classroom sometime, man, I be in the classroom sweating.
And I be like, wow.
And man, this is- this is just basic.
Man we ain't even got into no calculus or h-  I say man, I don't- What?
Them people that's doing calculus  I say, man,  how can they sleep?
Man I was sitting there watching this girl,  we was sitting at the table,    she was doing this problem.
The problem took up-  The answer to the problem,  took up half the paper.
And I was like,  so that's the answer?
And where did you get that?
And then I was like, you know what Don't even.
Ma'am,  ma'am.
You know what,  some things are just not for everybody.
Yeah that's one of them things.
That's- that's yeah.
You continue on ma'am.
I say I'm not gonna even waste your time.
She started laughing.
She say seriously?
She- she say, do you want me to explain it?
I say look ma'am,  first of all,  I don't even wanna waste your time with you is- trying to explain that to me because  I know I can't comprehend right now.
Because some of the things that you- And some of the terminology that you gonna use,  I'm not gonna know what the flip you talking about.
So, just to save yourself some trouble and me some trouble,  you know.
And save us, maybe  fifteen, twenty minute conversation.
I'm'a just,  um,  drink my coffee.
And just continue to watch you work.
Yeah.
No I didn't- I didn't, uh, no.
I'm good.
Yeah I was good.
Yeah I was good on that one.
One thing about Valdosta?
If I could change-  Hm.
If I could change one thing about here.
One thing I could change about  Valdosta,  I would change the good ole boy system.
The for them by them.
Uh.
Uh, that's kind of hard to explain.
Well,  you have certain-  In smaller towns you-  Well, even in larger towns,  or  larger cities,  but you have more people,  but  in this  particular area,  you have  families of power,  you know.
So-  And which-  which creates.
a- a- a system of  them,  and then, us,  you know.
They make the rules, we have to play by the rules.
When the rules don't apply to them, they break the rules and then make more rules.
I would change that system,  where everybody get a fair shake.
Everybody deserves a fair shake, I feel like.
You know.
No matter what- what- what, you know.
At the end of the day, you know what I'm saying  people change.
And I feel like,  if you're willing  and you're really trying,  you know what I'm saying,  it should be shot.
You know what I'm saying, you should have your shot.
You know.
More often than not,  people don't really get a shot.
You know.
But  that's something that, um,  I kind of wanna-  Kind of one of the reasons I'm- I'm going I'm going to school too.
You know what I'm saying, because I know  a lot of these-  our youth  are mislead, you know.
Our youth need some guidance.
And then  they look up to a lot of these cats that's on these streets.
And  they listening to these-  these rap guys talking about  this money,  you know what I'm saying.
And going out there trying to get this money,  but  they don't understand the consequences of  what come with getting that money.
You know.
It's a lot that go with h-  having money.
You know what I'm saying, and then having it  from the ways that you obtain it.
You know.
A man that works a-  a nice job,  he goes home and sleeps well at night.
A man that  hustles from these streets and obtains large sums of money,  he don't sleep well.
Doesn't sleep- He don't sleep well.
If he sleep at all.
You know.
Through the aspects of  the ways he's  getting his money and- and then guess what, it's always somebody wanna take it.
So,  you have to know what you truly wanna do- and- and what you truly-  what you're truly dealing with.
So,  you know most of these cats, man they-  You know and- and- and-  and I hate to say-  You know I- I hate to keep  laying it on the rappers,  but  you know,  with technology now,  psh,  that's who growing your children up.
If you ain't doing something  within your own household,  y- your children growing up off of Facebook.
Um,  what's the other thing,  um,  the, uh, the other  thing that you can do,  um,  Snapchat.
You know.
You know, tha- that's how these children are living.
You know what I'm saying.
Listening to Juju On That Beat.
You know what I'm saying.
They- they know Juju On The Beat before they know ABC's.
You know.
And that's sad.
You ask them the Juju,  then turn around,  and tell 'em, hey,  you now count to twenty five.
They gonna sing the whole Juju and do the dance,  but you can't count to twenty five.
So.
In our- In my community man,  we need some help.
We need the hel- But, but the thing is we have to help ourselves,  it comes from within.
You know, we need to get back to the-  the basis of us,  as people,  looking out for other peoples  in our community.
Because guess what, our youth is-    our youth is lost.
I see a lot of 'em man.
A lot of 'em already having babies.
A lot of 'em don't care,  you know.
Manage to-  They- they mommy and daddy stayed with they mommy and daddy, so I guess it's okay.
You know what I'm saying.
And I can see  if you-  if you using that as a stepping stone,  well one day you wanna  move and  be over here,  you know what I'm saying, and then you- you had a point where you financially stable, as you-  as you move out from mommy and daddy.
Now that's totally a different thing.
But just staying with your mommy and daddy to be staying with your mommy and daddy.
And you got your wife and your children there too,  you know what I'm saying.
And then you raising your children to do the same thing.
And then they children will- I- uh- It's a pattern.
It's- it's going to be a pattern.
You know.
And- and I would just, you know.
I would just love to  be an influence of some type to my community.
To-  the violence.
To stop the violence.
And  see so m-  so much of this potential,  that's going to waste man.
Turn around,  and do something great.
Because, it's- it's a lot of wasted  opportunities here.
You know what I'm saying, but that's because  of the system.
And- and they way they got it designed.
They got it designed  for you to stay in trouble,  because  they making money off of trouble.
You know what I'm saying.
So,  if you can get these cats to understand, hey, look,  they make a profit off of you,  doing the foolishness.
You know what I'm saying.
They win regardless.
Well,  why not-  why not if you gonna do something,  make it  l- let you win off yourself.
You know what I'm saying.
Invest in self.
You know.
We- we have to do- Y- you know what I'm saying, we need more investing in self.
You know, more businesses.
I ain't just saying college is the way for everybody, everybody's not college material.
Everybody can't go to a vocational school.
You know what I'm saying.
But it's- it's something that you can do,  you know what I'm saying, that you need to create  you some-  You need to create you some money off of that.
You know what I'm saying, whatever it may be.
You know what I'm saying.
If you sell ice cream the best, you need to sell ice cream,  you know what I'm saying.
And then, you know.
And then go from there.
I'm still trying to tap into what I- w- what I do the best.
I don't know yet.
I mean I'm forty one years old and I'm still searching.
I still ask god, what is it that-  what is it- gi- what gift do I have.
You know what I'm saying.
You know.
I'm still searching myself.
You know, sometimes, huh,  some of us are later bloomers than other-  others, you know.
Some people find they gift  right off.
You know what I'm saying.
And then- and tap into it and- and    and fly.
You know.
I was looking at these young guys man.
Uh, I've seen a couple of young cats man that I've seen on YouTube man.
They really making moves.
You know what I'm saying.
As far as the- the- the business world.
They're doing things boom, boom, boom .
Investments.
and  things of that sort.
I was like dang man.
I ain't never thought of that.
You know what I'm saying, that ain't when I did have a little- but I shoulda did that like this  You know what I'm saying.
I coulda been over here.
You know what I'm saying, but you know,  now,  when you do get some money like that, you know  you try to  put some away.
You can't do everything, you know.
Can't spend everything  on the day.
You know what I'm saying, because you ain't gonna have nothing for tomorrow.
And it is a tomorrow.
You know.
Especially if you have children.
Their tomorrow is what you're worrying about, cause it's no longer about your tomorrow.
It's about their tomorrow.
How can you  have something for them,  so,  they won't have to struggle,  like you.
You know what I'm saying.
And that's my biggest picture.
So y- That's why,  you know,  I went back to school.
You know what I'm saying, because  I wanna be able to  be a help to my community and my son.
And I think I can do it.
Uh,  so,  that's my biggest thing.
You know.
That kind of summed your question up?